Arabic script is a multi-layered orthographic system that consists of a base of archigraphemes, roughly equivalent to the traditional so-called rasm, with several layers of diacritics. The archigrapheme represents the smallest logical unit of Arabic script; it consists of the shared features between two or more graphemes, i.e., eliminating diacritics. Archigraphemes are to orthography what archiphonemes are to phonology. An archiphoneme is the abstract representation of two or more phonemes without their distinctive phonological features. For example, in Spanish, occlusive consonants loose their distinctive feature of sonority in syllabic coda position; the words adjetivo ‘adjective’ [aDxe'tiβo] and atleta ‘athlete’ [aD'leta] both shared an archiphoneme [D] (in careful speech) in their ﬁrst syllable, corresponding to the phonemes /d/ and /t/ respectively. In some cases, the neutralisation of two phonemes may cause two words to be homophones. For example, vid ‘vine’ and bit ‘bit’ are both pronounced as [biD]. In paleo-orthographic Arabic script, consonant diacritics were not written down in all positions as it happens in modern Arabic script, where they are mandatory. Consequently, homographic letter blocks were quite common. An additional characteristic of early Arabic script is that graphemic or logical spaces between words did not exist: Arabic orthography preserved the ancient practice of scriptio continua, in which script tries to represent connected speech. Diacritics are signs placed in relation with  the archigraphemic skeleton. From a functional point of view, there are two basic types of diacritics: a layer of consonant diacritics for differentiating graphemes and a second layer for vowels. In early script, diacritics are marked in a different colour from the one of the skeleton. Strokes were used for consonant diacritics, whereas dots were used for indicating vowels. In modern Arabic script, dots are instead used for consonant diacritics and they are mandatory. On the other hand, vowels are marked by different types of symbols and are usually optional. Unicode, the standard for digital encoding of language information, evolved from a typographic approach to language and its main concern is modern script. Typography is a technique to reproduce written language based on surface shape. As a consequence, it represents an obstacle for dealing with script from a linguistic point of view, since the same logical grapheme may be rendered using different glyphs. The main problems that arise are the following: 1. Only contemporary everyday use is covered, and that with a typographical approach: Unicode encodes multiple Arabic letters (archigraphemes + consonant diacritics) as single printing units. 2. Some calligraphic variants for the same letter were allowed to have separate Unicode characters. In practice, this means that a search for an Arabic word may yield nothing when typed in a Persian or an Urdu keyboard. This is also why you may ﬁnd only a fraction of all the results when searching in an Arabic text. 3. There are currently no specialised tools that allow scholars to perform searches on Arabic  
This paper is a part of a collaboration between computer scientists and historians aimed at development of novel tools and methods to improve analysis of historical newspapers. We present a case study of ideological terms ending with -ism suffix in nineteenth century Finnish newspapers. We propose a two-step procedure to trace differences in word usages over time: training of diachronic embeddings on several time slices and when clustering embeddings of selected words together with their neighbours to obtain historical context. The obtained clusters turn out to be useful for historical studies. The paper also discuss specific difficulties related to development historian-oriented tools.
Geotagging historic and cultural texts provides valuable access to heritage data, enabling location-based searching and new geographically related discoveries. In this paper, we describe two distinct approaches to geotagging a variety of fine-grained toponyms in a diachronic corpus of alpine texts. By applying a traditional gazetteer-based approach, aided by a few simple heuristics, we attain strong high-precision annotations. Using the output of this earlier system, we adopt a state-of-the-art neural approach in order to facilitate the detection of new toponyms on the basis of context. Additionally, we present the results of preliminary experiments on integrating a small amount of crowdsourced annotations to improve overall performance of toponym recognition in our heritage corpus.
Preservation of the cultural heritage by means of digital methods became extremely popular during last years. After intensive digitization campaigns the focus moves slowly from the genuine preservation (i.e digital archiving together with standard search mechanisms) to research-oriented usage of materials available electronically. This usage is intended to go far beyond simple reading of digitized materials; researchers should be able to gain new insigts in materials, discover new facts by means of tools relying on innovative algorithms. In this article we will describe the workflow necessary for the annotation of a dichronic corpus of classical Ethiopic, language of essential importance for the study of Early Christianity
The paper shows how a multilingual hierarchical thesaurus, or taxonomy, can be created and implemented in compliance with Semantic Web requirements by means of the data model SKOS (Simple Knowledge Organization System). It takes the EHRI (European Holocaust Research Infrastructure) portal as an example, and shows how open-source software like SKOS Play! can facilitate the task.
The paper presents an ongoing project of the NBU Laboratory for Language Technology aiming to create a multilingual, CEFR-graded electronic didactic resource for online learning, centered on the history and cultural heritage of the EU (e-EULearn). The resource is developed within the e-Platform of the NBU Laboratory for Language Technology and re-uses the rich corpus of educational material created at the Laboratory for the needs of NBU program modules, distance and blended learning language courses and other projects. Focus being not just on foreign language tuition, but above all on people, places and events in the history and culture of the EU member states, the annotation modules of the e-Platform have been accordingly extended. Current and upcoming activities are directed at: 1/ enriching the English corpus of didactic materials on EU history and culture, 2/ translating the texts into (the) other official EU languages and aligning the translations with the English texts; 3/ developing new test modules. In the process of developing this resource, a database on important people, places, objects and events in the cultural history of the EU will be created.
Many applications in Digital Humanities (DH) rely on annotations of the raw material. These annotations (inferred automatically or done manually) assume that labelled facts are either true or false, thus all inferences started on such annotations us boolean logic. This contradicts hermeneutic principles used by humanites in which most part of the knowledge has a degree of truth which varies depending on the experience and the world knowledge of the interpreter. In this paper we will show how uncertainty and vagueness, two main features of any historical text can be encoded in annotations and thus be considered by DH applications.
The objective of the 2019 RANLP Multilingual Headline Generation (HG) Task is to explore some of the challenges highlighted by current state of the art approaches on creating informative headlines to news articles: non-descriptive headlines, out-of-domain training data, generating headlines from long documents which are not well represented by the head heuristic, and dealing with multilingual domain. This tasks makes available a large set of training data for headline generation and provides an evaluation methods for the task. Our data sets are drawn from Wikinews as well as Wikipedia. Participants were required to generate headlines for at least 3 languages, which were evaluated via automatic methods. A key aspect of the task is multilinguality. The task measures the performance of multilingual headline generation systems using the Wikipedia and Wikinews articles in multiple languages. The objective is to assess the performance of automatic headline generation techniques on text documents covering a diverse range of languages and topics outside the news domain.
The Financial Narrative Summarisation task at MultiLing 2019 aims to demonstrate the value and challenges of applying automatic text summarisation to financial text written in English, usually referred to as financial narrative disclosures. The task dataset has been extracted from UK annual reports published in PDF file format. The participants were asked to provide structured summaries, based on real-world, publicly available financial annual reports of UK firms by extracting information from different key sections. Participants were asked to generate summaries that reflects the analysis and assessment of the financial trend of the business over the past year, as provided by annual reports. The evaluation of the summaries was performed using AutoSummENG and Rouge automatic metrics. This paper focuses mainly on the data creation process.
This report covers the summarization evaluation task, proposed to the summarization community via the MultiLing 2019 Workshop of the RANLP 2019 conference. The task aims to encourage the development of automatic summarization evaluation methods closely aligned with manual, human-authored summary grades and judgements. A multilingual setting is adopted, building upon a corpus of Wikinews articles across 6 languages (English, Arabic, Romanian, Greek, Spanish and Czech). The evaluation utilizes human (golden) and machine-generated (peer) summaries, which have been assigned human evaluation scores from previous MultiLing tasks. Using these resources, the original corpus is augmented with synthetic data, combining summary texts under three different strategies (reorder, merge and replace), each engineered to introduce noise in the summary in a controlled and quantifiable way. We estimate that the utilization of such data can extract and highlight useful attributes of summary quality estimation, aiding the creation of data-driven automatic methods with an increased correlation to human summary evaluations across domains and languages. This paper provides a brief description of the summary evaluation task, the data generation protocol and the resources made available by the MultiLing community, towards improving automatic summarization evaluation.
MultiLing 2019 Headline Generation Task on Wikipedia Corpus raised a critical and practical problem: multilingual task on low resource corpus. In this paper we proposed QDAS extractive summarization model enhanced by sentence2vec and try to apply transfer learning based on large multilingual pre-trained language model for Wikipedia Headline Generation task. We treat it as sequence labeling task and develop two schemes to handle with it. Experimental results have shown that large pre-trained model can effectively utilize learned knowledge to extract certain phrase using low resource supervised data.
In this study, we examine the effect of probabilistic topic model-based word representations, on sentence-based extractive summarization. We formulate the task of summary extraction as a binary classification problem, and we test a variety of machine learning algorithms, exploring a range of different settings. An wide experimental evaluation on the MultiLing 2015 MSS dataset illustrates that topic-based representations can prove beneficial to the extractive summarization process in terms of F1, ROUGE-L and ROUGE-W scores, compared to a TF-IDF baseline, with QDA-based analysis providing the best results.
Game reviews have constituted a unique means of interaction between players and companies for many years. The dynamics appearing through online publishing have significantly grown the number of comments per game, giving rise to very interesting communities. The growth has, in turn, led to a difficulty in dealing with the volume and varying quality of the comments as a source of information. This work studies whether and how game reviews can be summarized, based on the notions pre-existing in aspect-based summarization and sentiment analysis. The work provides suggested pipeline of analysis, also offering preliminary findings on whether aspects detected in a set of comments can be consistently evaluated by human users.
The Social Web Observatory is an entity-driven, sentiment-aware, event summarization web platform, combining various methods and tools to overview trends across social media and news sources in Greek. SWO crawls, clusters and summarizes information following an entity-centric view of text streams, allowing to monitor the public sentiment towards a specific person, organization or other entity. In this paper, we overview the platform, outline the analysis pipeline and describe a user study aimed to quantify the usefulness of the system and especially the meaningfulness and coherence of discovered events.
In this study we examine the effect of semantic augmentation approaches on extractive text summarization. Wordnet hypernym relations are used to extract term-frequency concept information, subsequently concatenated to sentence-level representations produced by aggregated deep neural word embeddings. Multiple dimensionality reduction techniques and combination strategies are examined via feature transformation and clustering methods. An experimental evaluation on the MultiLing 2015 MSS dataset illustrates that semantic information can introduce benefits to the extractive summarization process in terms of F1, ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2 scores, with LSA-based post-processing introducing the largest improvements.
Automatic headline generation is a subtask of one-line summarization with many reported applications. Evaluation of systems generating headlines is a very challenging and undeveloped area. We introduce the Headline Evaluation and Analysis System (HEvAS) that performs automatic evaluation of systems in terms of a quality of the generated headlines. HEvAS provides two types of metrics{--} one which measures the informativeness of a headline, and another that measures its readability. The results of evaluation can be compared to the results of baseline methods which are implemented in HEvAS. The system also performs the statistical analysis of the evaluation results and provides different visualization charts. This paper describes all evaluation metrics, baselines, analysis, and architecture, utilized by our system.
In this submission, I would like to share my experiences with the software DeepL and the comparison analysis I have made with human subtitling offered by the DVD version of the corpus I have chosen as the topic of my study {--} the eight Seasons of Game of Thrones. The idea is to study if the version proposed by an automatic translation program could be used as a first draft for the professional subtitler. It is expected that the latter would work on the form of the subtitles, that is to say mainly on their length, in a second step.
Parallel corpora constitute a unique re-source for providing assistance to human translators. The selection and preparation of the parallel corpora also conditions the quality of the resulting MT engine. Since Croatian is a national language and Italian is officially recognized as a minority lan-guage in seven cities and twelve munici-palities of Istria County, a large amount of parallel texts is produced on a daily basis. However, there have been no attempts in using these texts for compiling a parallel corpus. A domain-specific sentence-aligned parallel Croatian-Italian corpus of administrative texts would be of high value in creating different language tools and resources. The aim of this paper is, therefore, to explore the value of parallel documents which are publicly available mostly in pdf format and to investigate the use of automatically-built dictionaries in corpus compilation. The effects that a document format and, consequently sentence splitting, and the dictionary input have on the sentence alignment process are manually evaluated.
While a number of studies have shown evidence of translationese phenomena, that is, statistical differences between original texts and translated texts (Gellerstam, 1986), results of studies searching for translationese features in postedited texts (what has been called {''}posteditese{''} (Daems et al., 2017)) have presented mixed results. This paper reports a preliminary study aimed at identifying the presence of post-editese features in machine-translated post-edited texts and at understanding how they differ from translationese features. We test the influence of factors such as post-editing (PE) levels (full vs. light), translation proficiency (professionals vs. students) and text domain (news vs. literary). Results show evidence of post-editese features, especially in light PE texts and in certain domains.
We propose a metric for machine translation evaluation based on frame semantics which does not require the use of reference translations or human corrections, but is aimed at comparing original and translated output directly. The metrics is described on the basis of an existing manual frame-semantic annotation of a parallel corpus with an English original and a Brazilian Portuguese and a German translation. We discuss implications of our metrics design, including the potential of scaling it for multiple languages.
Recent advances in artificial neural networks now have a great impact on translation technology. A considerable achievement was reached in this field with the publication of L{'}Apprentissage Profond. This book, originally written in English (Deep Learning), was entirely machine-translated into French and post-edited by several experts. In this context, it appears essential to have a clear vision of the performance of MT tools. Providing an evaluation of NMT is precisely the aim of the present research paper. To accomplish this objective, a framework for error categorisation was built and a comparative analysis of the raw translation output and the post-edited version was performed with the purpose of identifying recurring patterns of errors. The findings showed that even though some grammatical errors were spotted, the output was generally correct from a linguistic point of view. The most recurring errors are linked to the specialised terminology employed in this book. Further errors include parts of text that were not translated as well as edits based on stylistic preferences. The major part of the output was not acceptable as such and required several edits per segment, but some sentences were of publishable quality and were therefore left untouched in the final version.
We use a range of morpho-syntactic features inspired by research in register studies (e.g. Biber, 1995; Neumann, 2013) and translation studies (e.g. Ilisei et al., 2010; Zanettin, 2013; Kunilovskaya and Kutuzov, 2018) to reveal the association between translationese and human translation quality. Translationese is understood as any statistical deviations of translations from non-translations (Baker, 1993) and is assumed to affect the fluency of translations, rendering them foreign-sounding and clumsy of wording and structure. This connection is often posited or implied in the studies of translationese or translational varieties (De Sutter et al., 2017), but is rarely directly tested. Our 45 features include frequencies of selected morphological forms and categories, some types of syntactic structures and relations, as well as several overall text measures extracted from Universal Dependencies annotation. The research corpora include English-to-Russian professional and student translations of informational or argumentative newspaper texts and a comparable corpus of non-translated Russian. Our results indicate lack of direct association between translationese and quality in our data: while our features distinguish translations and non-translations with the near perfect accuracy, the performance of the same algorithm on the quality classes barely exceeds the chance level.
The translation of wordplay is one of the most extensively researched problems in translation studies, but it has attracted little attention in the fields of natural language processing and machine translation. This is because today{'}s language technologies treat anomalies and ambiguities in the input as things that must be resolved in favour of a single {``}correct{''} interpretation, rather than preserved and interpreted in their own right. But if computers cannot yet process such creative language on their own, can they at least provide specialized support to translation professionals? In this paper, I survey the state of the art relevant to computational processing of humorous wordplay and put forth a vision of how existing theories, resources, and technologies could be adapted and extended to support interactive, computer-assisted translation.
The automatic evaluation of machine translation (MT) has proven to be a very significant research topic. Most automatic evaluation methods focus on the evaluation of the output of MT as they compute similarity scores that represent translation quality. This work targets on the performance of MT evaluation. We present a general scheme for learning to classify parallel translations, using linguistic information, of two MT model outputs and one human (reference) translation. We present three experiments to this scheme using neural networks (NN). One using string based hand-crafted features (Exp1), the second using automatically trained embeddings from the reference and the two MT outputs (one from a statistical machine translation (SMT) model and the other from a neural ma-chine translation (NMT) model), which are learned using NN (Exp2), and the third experiment (Exp3) that combines information from the other two experiments. The languages involved are English (EN), Greek (GR) and Italian (IT) segments are educational in domain. The proposed language-independent learning scheme which combines information from the two experiments (experiment 3) achieves higher classification accuracy compared with models using BLEU score information as well as other classification approaches, such as Random Forest (RF) and Support Vector Machine (SVM).
In this study, we compare the output quality of two MT systems, a statistical (SMT) and a neural (NMT) engine, customised for Swiss Post{'}s Language Service using the same training data. We focus on the point of view of professional translators and investigate how they perceive the differences between the MT output and a human reference (namely deletions, substitutions, insertions and word order). Our findings show that translators more frequently consider these differences to be errors in SMT than NMT, and that deletions are the most serious errors in both architectures. We also observe lower agreement on differences to be corrected in NMT than in SMT, suggesting that errors are easier to identify in SMT. These findings confirm the ability of NMT to produce correct paraphrases, which could also explain why BLEU is often considered as an inadequate metric to evaluate the performance of NMT systems.
The Chinese/English Political Interpreting Corpus (CEPIC) is a new electronic and open access resource developed for translators and interpreters, especially those working with political text types. Over 6 million word tokens in size, the online corpus consists of transcripts of Chinese (Cantonese {\&} Putonghua) / English political speeches and their translated and interpreted texts. It includes rich meta-data and is POS-tagged and annotated with prosodic and paralinguistic features that are of concern to spoken language and interpreting. The online platform of the CEPIC features main functions including Keyword Search, Word Collocation and Expanded Keyword in Context, which are illustrated in the paper. The CEPIC can shed light on online translation and interpreting corpora development in the future.
Modern translation QA tools are the latest attempt to overcome the inevitable subjective component of human revisers. This paper analyzes the current situation in the translation industry in respect to those tools and their relationship with CAT tools. The adoption of international standards has set the basic frame that defines {``}quality{''}. Because of the clear impossibility to develop a universal QA tool, all of the existing ones have in common a wide variety of settings for the user to choose from. A brief comparison is made between most popular standalone QA tools. In order to verify their results in practice, QA outputs from two of those tools have been compared. Polls that cover a period of 12 years have been collected. Their participants explained what practices they adopted in order to guarantee quality.
The paper presents a study of the French Imparfait and its functional equivalents in Bulgarian and English in view of applications in machine translation and error analysis. The aims of the study are: 1/ based on the analysis of a corpus of text, to validate/revise earlier research on the values of the French Imparfait, 2/ to define the contextual factors pointing to the realisation of one or another value of the forms, 3/ based on the analysis of aligned translations, to identify the translation equivalents of these values, 4/ to formulate translation rules, 5/ based on the analysis of the translation rules, to refine the annotation modules of the environment used {--} the NBU e-Platform for language teaching and research.
This article presents a multi-faceted analysis of a subset of interpreted conference speeches from the WAW corpus for the English-Arabic language pair. We analyze several speakers and interpreters variables via manual annotation and automatic methods. We propose a new automatic method for calculating interpreters{'} d{\'e}calage based on Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) and automatic alignment of named entities and content words between speaker and interpreter. The method is evaluated by two human annotators who have expertise in interpreting and Interpreting Studies and shows highly satisfactory results, accompanied with a high inter-annotator agreement. We provide insights about the relations of speakers{'} variables, interpreters{'} variables and d{\'e}calage and discuss them from Interpreting Studies and interpreting practice point of view. We had interesting findings about interpreters behavior which need to be extended to a large number of conference sessions in our future research.
The emergence of China as a global economic power in the 21st Century has brought about surging needs for cross-lingual and cross-cultural mediation, typically performed by translators. Advances in Artificial Intelligence and Language Engineering have been bolstered by Machine learning and suitable Big Data cultivation. They have helped to meet some of the translator{'}s needs, though the technical specialists have not kept pace with the practical and expanding requirements in language mediation. One major technical and linguistic hurdle involves words outside the vocabulary of the translator or the lexical database he/she consults, especially Multi-Word Expressions (Compound Words) in technical subjects. A further problem is in the multiplicity of renditions of a term in the target language. This paper discusses a proactive approach following the successful extraction and application of sizable bilingual Multi-Word Expressions (Compound Words) for language mediation in technical subjects, which do not fall within the expertise of typical translators, who have inadequate appreciation of the range of new technical tools available to help him/her. Our approach draws on the personal reflections of translators and teachers of translation and is based on the prior R{\&}D efforts relating to 300,000 comparable Chinese-English patents. The subsequent protocol we have developed aims to be proactive in meeting four identified practical challenges in technical translation (e.g. patents). It has broader economic implication in the Age of Big Data (Tsou et al, 2015) and Trade War, as the workload, if not, the challenges, increasingly cannot be met by currently available front-line translators. We shall demonstrate how new tools can be harnessed to spearhead the application of language technology not only in language mediation but also in the {``}teaching{''} and {``}learning{''} of translation. It shows how a better appreciation of their needs may enhance the contributions of the technical specialists, and thus enhance the resultant synergetic benefits.
Neural machine translation (NMT) was shown to produce more fluent output than phrase-based statistical (PBMT) and rule-based machine translation (RBMT). However, improved fluency makes it more difficult for post editors to identify and correct adequacy errors, because unlike RBMT and SMT, in NMT adequacy errors are frequently not anticipated by fluency errors. Omissions and additions of content in otherwise flawlessly fluent NMT output are the most prominent types of such adequacy errors, which can only be detected with reference to source texts. This contribution explores the degree of semantic similarity between source texts, NMT output and post edited output. In this way, computational semantic similarity scores (cosine similarity) are related to human quality judgments. The analyses are based on publicly available NMT post editing data annotated for errors in three language pairs (EN-DE, EN-LV, EN-HR) with the Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM). Methodologically, this contribution tests whether cross-language aligned word embeddings as the sole source of semantic information mirror human error annotation.
Technologies and their constant updates and innovative nature drastically and irreversibly transformed this small business into a leading brand on the translation market, along with just few other LSPs integrating translation software solutions. Now, we are constantly following the new developments in software updates and online platforms and we are successfully keeping up with any new trend in the field of translation, localization, transcreation, revision, post-editing, etc. Ultimately, we are positive that proper implementation of technology (with focus on quality, cost and time) and hard work are the stepping stones in the way to become a trusted translation services provider.
Technology is a big challenge and raises many questions and issues when it comes to its application in the translation process, but translation{'}s biggest problem is not technology; it is rather how technology is perceived by translators. MT developers and researchers should take into account this perception and move towards a more democratized approach to include the base of the translation industry and perhaps its more valuable asset, the translators.
In this article, we describe how machine translation is used for post-editing at TransPerfect and the ways in which we optimise the workflow. This includes MT evaluation, MT engine customisation, leveraging MT suggestions compared to TM matches, and the lessons learnt from implementing MT at a large scale.
When generating technical instructions, it is often necessary to describe an object that does not exist yet. For example, an NLG system which explains how to build a house needs to generate sentences like {``}build *a wall of height five to your left*{''} and {``}now build *a wall on the other side*.{''} Generating (indefinite) referring expressions to objects that do not exist yet is fundamentally different from generating the usual definite referring expressions, because the new object must be distinguished from an infinite set of possible alternatives. We formalize this problem and present an algorithm for generating such expressions, in the context of generating building instructions within the Minecraft video game.
We model the production of quantified referring expressions (QREs) that identify collections of visual items. To address this task, we propose a method of perceptual cost pruning, which consists of two steps: (1) determine what subset of quantity information can be perceived given a time limit t, and (2) apply a preference order based REG algorithm (e.g., the Incremental Algorithm) to this reduced set of information. We demonstrate that this method successfully improves the human-likeness of the IA in the QRE generation task and successfully models human-generated language in most cases.
In recent years, Bayesian models of referring expression generation have gained prominence in order to produce situationally more adequate referring expressions. Basically, these models enable the integration of different parameters into the decision process for using a specific referring expression like the cardinality of the object set, the configuration and complexity of the visual field, and the discriminatory power of available attributes that need to be combined with visual salience and personal preference. This paper describes and discusses the results of an empirical study on the production of referring expressions in visual fields with different object configurations of varying complexity and different contextual premises for using a referring expression. The visual fields are set up using data from the TUNA experiment with plain random or pragmatically enriched configurations which allow for target inference. Different categories of the situational contexts, in which the referring expressions are produced, provide different degrees of cooperativeness, so that generation quality and its relations to contextual user intention can be observed. The results of the study suggest that Bayesian approaches must integrate individual generation preference and the cooperativeness of the situational task in order to model the broad variance between speakers more adequately.
Text attribute transfer is modifying certain linguistic attributes (e.g. sentiment, style, author-ship, etc.) of a sentence and transforming them from one type to another. In this paper, we aim to analyze and interpret what is changed during the transfer process. We start from the observation that in many existing models and datasets, certain words within a sentence play important roles in determining the sentence attribute class. These words are referred as the Pivot Words. Based on these pivot words, we propose a lexical analysis framework, the Pivot Analysis, to quantitatively analyze the effects of these words in text attribute classification and transfer. We apply this framework to existing datasets and models and show that: (1) the pivot words are strong features for the classification of sentence attributes; (2) to change the attribute of a sentence, many datasets only requires to change certain pivot words; (3) consequently, many transfer models only perform the lexical-level modification,while leaving higher-level sentence structures unchanged. Our work provides an in-depth understanding of linguistic attribute transfer and further identifies the future requirements and challenges of this task
Between 80{\%} and 90{\%} of all Chinese words have long and short form such as 老虎/虎 (lao-hu/hu , tiger) (Duanmu:2013). Consequently, the choice between long and short forms is a key problem for lexical choice across NLP and NLG. Following an earlier work on abbreviations in English (Mahowald et al, 2013), we bring a probabilistic perspective to these questions, using both a behavioral and a corpus-based approach. We hypothesized that there is a higher probability of choosing short form in supportive context than in neutral context in Mandarin. Consistent with our prediction, our findings revealed that predictability of contexts makes effect on speakers{'} long and short form choice.
The writing process consists of several stages such as drafting, revising, editing, and proofreading. Studies on writing assistance, such as grammatical error correction (GEC), have mainly focused on sentence editing and proofreading, where surface-level issues such as typographical errors, spelling errors, or grammatical errors should be corrected. We broaden this focus to include the earlier revising stage, where sentences require adjustment to the information included or major rewriting and propose Sentence-level Revision (SentRev) as a new writing assistance task. Well-performing systems in this task can help inexperienced authors by producing fluent, complete sentences given their rough, incomplete drafts. We build a new freely available crowdsourced evaluation dataset consisting of incomplete sentences authored by non-native writers paired with their final versions extracted from published academic papers for developing and evaluating SentRev models. We also establish baseline performance on SentRev using our newly built evaluation dataset.
Synthesis approaches in computational argumentation so far are restricted to generating claim-like argument units or short summaries of debates. Ultimately, however, we expect computers to generate whole new arguments for a given stance towards some topic, backing up claims following argumentative and rhetorical considerations. In this paper, we approach such an argumentation synthesis as a language modeling task. In our language model, argumentative discourse units are the {``}words{''}, and arguments represent the {``}sentences{''}. Given a pool of units for any unseen topic-stance pair, the model selects a set of unit types according to a basic rhetorical strategy (logos vs. pathos), arranges the structure of the types based on the units{'} argumentative roles, and finally {``}phrases{''} an argument by instantiating the structure with semantically coherent units from the pool. Our evaluation suggests that the model can, to some extent, mimic the human synthesis of strategy-specific arguments.
Encoder-decoder based neural architectures serve as the basis of state-of-the-art approaches in end-to-end open domain dialog systems. Since most of such systems are trained with a maximum likelihood (MLE) objective they suffer from issues such as lack of generalizability and the generic response problem, i.e., a system response that can be an answer to a large number of user utterances, e.g., {``}Maybe, I don{'}t know.{''} Having explicit feedback on the relevance and interestingness of a system response at each turn can be a useful signal for mitigating such issues and improving system quality by selecting responses from different approaches. Towards this goal, we present a system that evaluates chatbot responses at each dialog turn for coherence and engagement. Our system provides explicit turn-level dialog quality feedback, which we show to be highly correlated with human evaluation. To show that incorporating this feedback in the neural response generation models improves dialog quality, we present two different and complementary mechanisms to incorporate explicit feedback into a neural response generation model: reranking and direct modification of the loss function during training. Our studies show that a response generation model that incorporates these combined feedback mechanisms produce more engaging and coherent responses in an open-domain spoken dialog setting, significantly improving the response quality using both automatic and human evaluation.
We investigate the impact of search strategies in neural dialogue modeling. We first compare two standard search algorithms, greedy and beam search, as well as our newly proposed iterative beam search which produces a more diverse set of candidate responses. We evaluate these strategies in realistic full conversations with humans and propose a model-based Bayesian calibration to address annotator bias. These conversations are analyzed using two automatic metrics: log-probabilities assigned by the model and utterance diversity. Our experiments reveal that better search algorithms lead to higher rated conversations. However, finding the optimal selection mechanism to choose from a more diverse set of candidates is still an open question.
To overcome the limitations of automated metrics (e.g. BLEU, METEOR) for evaluating dialogue systems, researchers typically use human judgments to provide convergent evidence. While it has been demonstrated that human judgments can suffer from the inconsistency of ratings, extant research has also found that the design of the evaluation task affects the consistency and quality of human judgments. We conduct a between-subjects study to understand the impact of four experiment conditions on human ratings of dialogue system output. In addition to discrete and continuous scale ratings, we also experiment with a novel application of Best-Worst scaling to dialogue evaluation. Through our systematic study with 40 crowdsourced workers in each task, we find that using continuous scales achieves more consistent ratings than Likert scale or ranking-based experiment design. Additionally, we find that factors such as time taken to complete the task and no prior experience of participating in similar studies of rating dialogue system output positively impact consistency and agreement amongst raters.
Generating fluent natural language responses from structured semantic representations is a critical step in task-oriented conversational systems. Sequence-to-sequence models on flat meaning representations (MR) have been dominant in this task, for example in the E2E NLG Challenge. Previous work has shown that a tree-structured MR can improve the model for better discourse-level structuring and sentence-level planning. In this work, we propose a tree-to-sequence model that uses a tree-LSTM encoder to leverage the tree structures in the input MR, and further enhance the decoding by a structure-enhanced attention mechanism. In addition, we explore combining these enhancements with constrained decoding to improve semantic correctness. Our experiments not only show significant improvements over standard seq2seq baselines, but also is more data-efficient and generalizes better to hard scenarios.
Multiple headlines of a newspaper article have an important role to express the content of the article accurately and concisely. A headline depends on the content and intent of their article. While a single headline expresses the whole corresponding article, each of multiple headlines expresses different information individually. We suggest automatic generation method of such a diverse multiple headlines in a newspaper. Our generation method is based on the Pointer-Generator Network, using page metadata on a newspaper which can change headline generation behavior. This page metadata includes headline location, headline size, article page number, etc. In a previous related work, ensemble of three different generation models was performed to obtain a single headline, where each generation model generates a single headline candidate. In contrast, we use a single model to generate multiple headlines. We conducted automatic evaluations for generated headlines. The results show that our method improved ROUGE-1 score by 4.32 points higher than baseline. These results suggest that our model using page metadata can generate various multiple headlines for an article In better performance.
Question Generation (QG) is the task of generating questions from a given passage. One of the key requirements of QG is to generate a question such that it results in a target answer. Previous works used a target answer to obtain a desired question. However, we also want to specify how to ask questions and improve the quality of generated questions. In this study, we explore the use of interrogative phrases as additional sources to control QG. By providing interrogative phrases, we expect that QG can generate a more reliable sequence of words subsequent to an interrogative phrase. We present a baseline sequence-to-sequence model with the attention, copy, and coverage mechanisms, and show that the simple baseline achieves state-of-the-art performance. The experiments demonstrate that interrogative phrases contribute to improving the performance of QG. In addition, we report the superiority of using interrogative phrases in human evaluation. Finally, we show that a question answering system can provide target answers more correctly when the questions are generated with interrogative phrases.
Surface realisation (SR) consists in generating a text from a meaning representations (MR). In this paper, we introduce a new parallel dataset of deep meaning representations (MR) and French sentences and we present a novel method for MR-to-text generation which seeks to generalise by abstracting away from lexical content. Most current work on natural language generation focuses on generating text that matches a reference using BLEU as evaluation criteria. In this paper, we additionally consider the model{'}s ability to reintroduce the function words that are absent from the deep input meaning representations. We show that our approach increases both BLEU score and the scores used to assess function words generation.
We compiled a new sentence splitting corpus that is composed of 203K pairs of aligned complex source and simplified target sentences. Contrary to previously proposed text simplification corpora, which contain only a small number of split examples, we present a dataset where each input sentence is broken down into a set of minimal propositions, i.e. a sequence of sound, self-contained utterances with each of them presenting a minimal semantic unit that cannot be further decomposed into meaningful propositions. This corpus is useful for developing sentence splitting approaches that learn how to transform sentences with a complex linguistic structure into a fine-grained representation of short sentences that present a simple and more regular structure which is easier to process for downstream applications and thus facilitates and improves their performance.
A prominent strand of work in formal semantics investigates the ways in which human languages quantify over the elements of a set, as when we say {``}\textit{All \textit{A} are \textit{B} }{''}, {``}\textit{All except two \textit{A} are \textit{B} }{''}, {``}\textit{Only a few of the \textit{A} are \textit{B} }{''} and so on. Our aim is to build Natural Language Generation algorithms that mimic humans{'} use of quantified expressions. To inform these algorithms, we conducted on a series of elicitation experiments in which human speakers were asked to perform a linguistic task that invites the use of quantified expressions. We discuss how these experiments were conducted and what corpora they gave rise to. We conduct an informal analysis of the corpora, and offer an initial assessment of the challenges that these corpora pose for Natural Language Generation. The dataset is available at: \url{https://github.com/a-quei/qtuna}.
Keyphrase generation is the task of predicting a set of lexical units that conveys the main content of a source text. Existing datasets for keyphrase generation are only readily available for the scholarly domain and include non-expert annotations. In this paper we present KPTimes, a large-scale dataset of news texts paired with editor-curated keyphrases. Exploring the dataset, we show how editors tag documents, and how their annotations differ from those found in existing datasets. We also train and evaluate state-of-the-art neural keyphrase generation models on KPTimes to gain insights on how well they perform on the news domain. The dataset is available online at https:// github.com/ygorg/KPTimes.
A lot of recent work in Language {\&} Vision has looked at generating descriptions or referring expressions for objects in scenes of real-world images, though focusing mostly on relatively simple language like object names, color and location attributes (e.g., brown chair on the left). This paper presents work on Draw-and-Tell, a dataset of detailed descriptions for common objects in images where annotators have produced fine-grained attribute-centric expressions distinguishing a target object from a range of similar objects. Additionally, the dataset comes with hand-drawn sketches for each object. As Draw-and-Tell is medium-sized and contains a rich vocabulary, it constitutes an interesting challenge for CNN-LSTM architectures used in state-of-the-art image captioning models. We explore whether the additional modality given through sketches can help such a model to learn to accurately ground detailed language referring expressions to object shapes. Our results are encouraging.
Data-to-text generation aims to generate descriptions given a structured input data (i.e., a table with multiple records). Existing neural methods for encoding input data can be divided into two categories: a) pooling based encoders which ignore dependencies between input records or b) recurrent encoders which model only sequential dependencies between input records. In our investigation, although the recurrent encoder generally outperforms the pooling based encoder by learning the sequential dependencies, it is sensitive to the order of the input records (i.e., performance decreases when injecting the random shuffling noise over input data). To overcome this problem, we propose to adopt the self-attention mechanism to learn dependencies between arbitrary input records. Experimental results show the proposed method achieves comparable results and remains stable under random shuffling over input data.
Leveraging the visual modality effectively for Neural Machine Translation (NMT) remains an open problem in computational linguistics. Recently, Caglayan et al. posit that the observed gains are limited mainly due to the very simple, short, repetitive sentences of the Multi30k dataset (the only multimodal MT dataset available at the time), which renders the source text sufficient for context. In this work, we further investigate this hypothesis on a new large scale multimodal Machine Translation (MMT) dataset, How2, which has 1.57 times longer mean sentence length than Multi30k and no repetition. We propose and evaluate three novel fusion techniques, each of which is designed to ensure the utilization of visual context at different stages of the Sequence-to-Sequence transduction pipeline, even under full linguistic context. However, we still obtain only marginal gains under full linguistic context and posit that visual embeddings extracted from deep vision models (ResNet for Multi30k, ResNext for How2) do not lend themselves to increasing the discriminativeness between the vocabulary elements at token level prediction in NMT. We demonstrate this qualitatively by analyzing attention distribution and quantitatively through Principal Component Analysis, arriving at the conclusion that it is the quality of the visual embeddings rather than the length of sentences, which need to be improved in existing MMT datasets.
We present a dataset consisting of what we call image description sequences, which are multi-sentence descriptions of the contents of an image. These descriptions were collected in a pseudo-interactive setting, where the describer was told to describe the given image to a listener who needs to identify the image within a set of images, and who successively asks for more information. As we show, this setup produced nicely structured data that, we think, will be useful for learning models capable of planning and realising such description discourses.
Automatic natural language generation systems need to use the contextually-appropriate verbs when describing different kinds of facts or events, which has triggered research interest on verb selection for data-to-text generation. In this paper, we discuss a few limitations of the current task settings and the evaluation metrics. We also provide two simple, efficient, interpretable baseline approaches for statistical selection of trend verbs, which give a strong performance on both previously used evaluation metrics and our new evaluation.
The uptake of deep learning in natural language generation (NLG) led to the release of both small and relatively large parallel corpora for training neural models. The existing data-to-text datasets are, however, aimed at task-oriented dialogue systems, and often thus limited in diversity and versatility. They are typically crowdsourced, with much of the noise left in them. Moreover, current neural NLG models do not take full advantage of large training data, and due to their strong generalizing properties produce sentences that look template-like regardless. We therefore present a new corpus of 7K samples, which (1) is clean despite being crowdsourced, (2) has utterances of 9 generalizable and conversational dialogue act types, making it more suitable for open-domain dialogue systems, and (3) explores the domain of video games, which is new to dialogue systems despite having excellent potential for supporting rich conversations.
In this study, we investigate the employment of the pre-trained BERT language model to tackle question generation tasks. We introduce two neural architectures built on top of BERT for question generation tasks. The first one is a straightforward BERT employment, which reveals the defects of directly using BERT for text generation. And, the second one remedies the first one by restructuring the BERT employment into a sequential manner for taking information from previous decoded results. Our models are trained and evaluated on the question-answering dataset SQuAD. Experiment results show that our best model yields state-of-the-art performance which advances the BLEU4 score of existing best models from 16.85 to 18.91.
Natural Language Inference (NLI) is the task of determining the semantic relationship between a premise and a hypothesis. In this paper, we focus on the generation of hypotheses from premises in a multimodal setting, to generate a sentence (hypothesis) given an image and/or its description (premise) as the input. The main goals of this paper are (a) to investigate whether it is reasonable to frame NLI as a generation task; and (b) to consider the degree to which grounding textual premises in visual information is beneficial to generation. We compare different neural architectures, showing through automatic and human evaluation that entailments can indeed be generated successfully. We also show that multimodal models outperform unimodal models in this task, albeit marginally
Machine-translated text plays a crucial role in the communication of people using different languages. However, adversaries can use such text for malicious purposes such as plagiarism and fake review. The existing methods detected a machine-translated text only using the text{'}s intrinsic content, but they are unsuitable for classifying the machine-translated and human-written texts with the same meanings. We have proposed a method to extract features used to distinguish machine/human text based on the similarity between the intrinsic text and its back-translation. The evaluation of detecting translated sentences with French shows that our method achieves 75.0{\%} of both accuracy and F-score. It outperforms the existing methods whose the best accuracy is 62.8{\%} and the F-score is 62.7{\%}. The proposed method even detects more efficiently the back-translated text with 83.4{\%} of accuracy, which is higher than 66.7{\%} of the best previous accuracy. We also achieve similar results not only with F-score but also with similar experiments related to Japanese. Moreover, we prove that our detector can recognize both machine-translated and machine-back-translated texts without the language information which is used to generate these machine texts. It demonstrates the persistence of our method in various applications in both low- and rich-resource languages.
Building a controllable neural conversation model (NCM) is an important task. In this paper, we focus on controlling the responses of NCMs by using dialogue act labels of responses as conditions. We introduce an adversarial learning framework for the task of generating conditional responses with a new objective to a discriminator, which explicitly distinguishes sentences by using labels. This change strongly encourages the generation of label-conditioned sentences. We compared the proposed method with some existing methods for generating conditional responses. The experimental results show that our proposed method has higher controllability for dialogue acts even though it has higher or comparable naturalness to existing methods.
Despite the success of style transfer in image processing, it has seen limited progress in natural language generation. Part of the problem is that content is not as easily decoupled from style in the text domain. Curiously, in the field of stylometry, content does not figure prominently in practical methods of discriminating stylistic elements, such as authorship and genre. Rather, syntax and function words are the most salient features. Drawing on this work, we model style as a suite of low-level linguistic controls, such as frequency of pronouns, prepositions, and subordinate clause constructions. We train a neural encoder-decoder model to reconstruct reference sentences given only content words and the setting of the controls. We perform style transfer by keeping the content words fixed while adjusting the controls to be indicative of another style. In experiments, we show that the model reliably responds to the linguistic controls and perform both automatic and manual evaluations on style transfer. We find we can fool a style classifier 84{\%} of the time, and that our model produces highly diverse and stylistically distinctive outputs. This work introduces a formal, extendable model of style that can add control to any neural text generation system.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models tend to achieve the best performances when larger sets of parallel sentences are provided for training. For this reason, augmenting the training set with artificially-generated sentence pair can boost the performance. Nonetheless, the performance can also be improved with a small number of sentences if they are in the same domain as the test set. Accordingly, we want to explore the use of artificially-generated sentence along with data-selection algorithms to improve NMT models trained solely with authentic data. In this work, we show how artificially-generated sentences can be more beneficial than authentic pairs and what are their advantages when used in combination with data-selection algorithms.
Using data-driven models for solving text summarization or similar tasks has become very common in the last years. Yet most of the studies report basic accuracy scores only, and nothing is known about the ability of the proposed models to improve when trained on more data. In this paper, we define and propose three data efficiency metrics: data score efficiency, data time deficiency and overall data efficiency. We also propose a simple scheme that uses those metrics and apply it for a more comprehensive evaluation of popular methods on text summarization and title generation tasks. For the latter task, we process and release a huge collection of 35 million abstract-title pairs from scientific articles. Our results reveal that among the tested models, the Transformer is the most efficient on both tasks.
Roughly 30{\%} of congressional staffers in the United States report spending a {``}great deal{''} of time writing responses to constituent letters. Letters often solicit an update on the status of legislation and a description of a congressman{'}s vote record or vote intention {---} structurable data that can be leveraged by a natural language generation (NLG) system to create a coherent letter response. This paper describes how PoliScribe, a pipeline-architectured NLG platform, constructs personalized responses to constituents inquiring about legislation. Emphasis will be placed on adapting NLG methodologies to the political domain, which entails special attention to affect, discursive variety, and rhetorical strategies that align a speaker with their interlocutor, even in cases of policy disagreement.
We present Margin Call, a web-based text viewer that automatically generates short summaries for each paragraph of the text and displays the summaries in the margin of the text next to the corresponding paragraph. On the back-end, the summarizer first identifies the most important sentence for each paragraph in the text file uploaded by the user. The selected sentence is then automatically compressed to produce the short summary. The resulting summary is a few words long. The displayed summaries can help the user understand and retrieve information faster from the text, while increasing the retention of information.
Biased decisions made by automatic systems have led to growing concerns in research communities. Recent work from the NLP community focuses on building systems that make fair decisions based on text. Instead of relying on unknown decision systems or human decision-makers, we argue that a better way to protect data providers is to remove the trails of sensitive information before publishing the data. In light of this, we propose a new privacy-aware text rewriting task and explore two privacy-aware back-translation methods for the task, based on adversarial training and approximate fairness risk. Our extensive experiments on three real-world datasets with varying demographical attributes show that our methods are effective in obfuscating sensitive attributes. We have also observed that the fairness risk method retains better semantics and fluency, while the adversarial training method tends to leak less sensitive information.
A lexical simplification (LS) system substitutes difficult words in a text with simpler ones to make it easier for the user to understand. In the typical LS pipeline, the Substitution Ranking step determines the best substitution out of a set of candidates. Most current systems do not consider the user{'}s vocabulary proficiency, and always aim for the simplest candidate. This approach may overlook less-simple candidates that the user can understand, and that are semantically closer to the original word. We propose a personalized approach for Substitution Ranking to identify the candidate that is the closest synonym and is non-complex for the user. In experiments on learners of English at different proficiency levels, we show that this approach enhances the semantic faithfulness of the output, at the cost of a relatively small increase in the number of complex words.
We present a creative poem generator for the morphologically rich Finnish language. Our method falls into the master-apprentice paradigm, where a computationally creative genetic algorithm teaches a BRNN model to generate poetry. We model several parts of poetic aesthetics in the fitness function of the genetic algorithm, such as sonic features, semantic coherence, imagery and metaphor. Furthermore, we justify the creativity of our method based on the FACE theory on computational creativity and take additional care in evaluating our system by automatic metrics for concepts together with human evaluation for aesthetics, framing and expressions.
This paper addresses Hip-Hop lyric generation with conditional Neural Language Models. We develop a simple yet effective mechanism to extract and apply conditional templates from text snippets, and show{---}on the basis of a large-scale crowd-sourced manual evaluation{---}that these templates significantly improve the quality and realism of the generated snippets. Importantly, the proposed approach enables end-to-end training, targeting formal properties of text such as rhythm and rhyme, which are central characteristics of rap texts. Additionally, we explore how generating text at different scales (e.g. character-level or word-level) affects the quality of the output. We find that a hybrid form{---}a hierarchical model that aims to integrate Language Modeling at both word and character-level scales{---}yields significant improvements in text quality, yet surprisingly, cannot exploit conditional templates to their fullest extent. Our findings highlight that text generation models based on Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) are sensitive to the modeling scale and call for further research on the observed differences in effectiveness of the conditioning mechanism at different scales.
Data-to-text generation models face challenges in ensuring data fidelity by referring to the correct input source. To inspire studies in this area, Wiseman et al. (2017) introduced the RotoWire corpus on generating NBA game summaries from the box- and line-score tables. However, limited attempts have been made in this direction and the challenges remain. We observe a prominent bottleneck in the corpus where only about 60{\%} of the summary contents can be grounded to the boxscore records. Such information deficiency tends to misguide a conditioned language model to produce unconditioned random facts and thus leads to factual hallucinations. In this work, we restore the information balance and revamp this task to focus on fact-grounded data-to-text generation. We introduce a purified and larger-scale dataset, RotoWire-FG (Fact-Grounding), with 50{\%} more data from the year 2017-19 and enriched input tables, and hope to attract research focuses in this direction. Moreover, we achieve improved data fidelity over the state-of-the-art models by integrating a new form of table reconstruction as an auxiliary task to boost the generation quality.
We propose a data-to-document generator that can easily control the contents of output texts based on a neural language model. Conventional data-to-text model is useful when a reader seeks a global summary of data because it has only to describe an important part that has been extracted beforehand. However, because depending on users, it differs what they are interested in, so it is necessary to develop a method to generate various summaries according to users{'} interests. We develop a model to generate various summaries and to control their contents by providing the explicit targets for a reference to the model as controllable factors. In the experiments, we used five-minute or one-hour charts of 9 indicators (e.g., Nikkei225), as time-series data, and daily summaries of Nikkei Quick News as textual data. We conducted comparative experiments using two pieces of information: human-designed topic labels indicating the contents of a sentence and automatically extracted keywords as the referential information for generation.
Browsing news articles on multiple devices is now possible. The lengths of news article headlines have precise upper bounds, dictated by the size of the display of the relevant device or interface. Therefore, controlling the length of headlines is essential when applying the task of headline generation to news production. However, because there is no corpus of headlines of multiple lengths for a given article, previous research on controlling output length in headline generation has not discussed whether the system outputs could be adequately evaluated without multiple references of different lengths. In this paper, we introduce two corpora, which are Japanese News Corpus (JNC) and JApanese MUlti-Length Headline Corpus (JAMUL), to confirm the validity of previous evaluation settings. The JNC provides common supervision data for headline generation. The JAMUL is a large-scale evaluation dataset for headlines of three different lengths composed by professional editors. We report new findings on these corpora; for example, although the longest length reference summary can appropriately evaluate the existing methods controlling output length, this evaluation setting has several problems.
Inter-Annotator Agreement (IAA) is used as a means of assessing the quality of NLG evaluation data, in particular, its reliability. According to existing scales of IAA interpretation {--} see, for example, Lommel et al. (2014), Liu et al. (2016), Sedoc et al. (2018) and Amidei et al. (2018a) {--} most data collected for NLG evaluation fail the reliability test. We confirmed this trend by analysing papers published over the last 10 years in NLG-specific conferences (in total 135 papers that included some sort of human evaluation study). Following Sampson and Babarczy (2008), Lommel et al. (2014), Joshi et al. (2016) and Amidei et al. (2018b), such phenomena can be explained in terms of irreducible human language variability. Using three case studies, we show the limits of considering IAA as the only criterion for checking evaluation reliability. Given human language variability, we propose that for human evaluation of NLG, correlation coefficients and agreement coefficients should be used together to obtain a better assessment of the evaluation data reliability. This is illustrated using the three case studies.
Currently, there is little agreement as to how Natural Language Generation (NLG) systems should be evaluated. While there is some agreement regarding automatic metrics, there is a high degree of variation in the way that human evaluation is carried out. This paper provides an overview of how human evaluation is currently conducted, and presents a set of best practices, grounded in the literature. With this paper, we hope to contribute to the quality and consistency of human evaluations in NLG.
We present a recurrent neural network based system for automatic quality estimation of natural language generation (NLG) outputs, which jointly learns to assign numerical ratings to individual outputs and to provide pairwise rankings of two different outputs. The latter is trained using pairwise hinge loss over scores from two copies of the rating network. We use learning to rank and synthetic data to improve the quality of ratings assigned by our system: We synthesise training pairs of distorted system outputs and train the system to rank the less distorted one higher. This leads to a 12{\%} increase in correlation with human ratings over the previous benchmark. We also establish the state of the art on the dataset of relative rankings from the E2E NLG Challenge (Dusek et al., 2019), where synthetic data lead to a 4{\%} accuracy increase over the base model.
We follow the step-by-step approach to neural data-to-text generation proposed by Moryossef et al (2019), in which the generation process is divided into a text planning stage followed by a plan realization stage. We suggest four extensions to that framework: (1) we introduce a trainable neural planning component that can generate effective plans several orders of magnitude faster than the original planner; (2) we incorporate typing hints that improve the model{'}s ability to deal with unseen relations and entities; (3) we introduce a verification-by-reranking stage that substantially improves the faithfulness of the resulting texts; (4) we incorporate a simple but effective referring expression generation module. These extensions result in a generation process that is faster, more fluent, and more accurate.
Creativity is an essential element of human nature used for many activities, such as telling a story. Based on human creativity, researchers have attempted to teach a computer to generate stories automatically or support this creative process. In this study, we undertake the task of story ending generation. This is a relatively new task, in which the last sentence of a given incomplete story is automatically generated. This is challenging because, in order to predict an appropriate ending, the generation method should comprehend the context of events. Despite the importance of this task, no clear evaluation metric has been established thus far; hence, it has remained an open problem. Therefore, we study the various elements involved in evaluating an automatic method for generating story endings. First, we introduce a baseline hierarchical sequence-to-sequence method for story ending generation. Then, we conduct a pairwise comparison against human-written endings, in which annotators choose the preferable ending. In addition to a quantitative evaluation, we conduct a qualitative evaluation by asking annotators to specify the reason for their choice. From the collected reasons, we discuss what elements the evaluation should focus on, to thereby propose effective metrics for the task.
This paper describes the implementation of the Hotel Scribe system. A commercial Natural Language Generation (NLG) system which generates descriptions of hotels from accommodation metadata with a high level of content and linguistic variation in English. It has been deployed live by *Anonymised Company Name* for the purpose of improving coverage of accommodation descriptions and for Search Engine Optimisation (SEO). In this paper, we describe the motivation for building this system, the challenges faced when dealing with limited metadata, and the implementation used to generate the highly variate accommodation descriptions. Additionally, we evaluate the uniqueness of the texts generated by our system against comparable human written accommodation description texts.
Rating and Likert scales are widely used in evaluation experiments to measure the quality of Natural Language Generation (NLG) systems. We review the use of rating and Likert scales for NLG evaluation tasks published in NLG specialized conferences over the last ten years (135 papers in total). Our analysis brings to light a number of deviations from good practice in their use. We conclude with some recommendations about the use of such scales. Our aim is to encourage the appropriate use of evaluation methodologies in the NLG community.
Task effects in NLG corpus elicitation recently started to receive more attention, but are usually not modeled statistically. We present a controlled replication of the study by Van Miltenburg et al. (2018b), contrasting spoken with written descriptions. We collected additional written Dutch descriptions to supplement the spoken data from the DIDEC corpus, and analyzed the descriptions using mixed effects modeling to account for variation between participants and items. Our results show that the effects of modality largely disappear in a controlled setting.
Multimedia procedural texts, such as instructions and manuals with pictures, support people to share how-to knowledge. In this paper, we propose a method for generating a procedural text given a photo sequence allowing users to obtain a multimedia procedural text. We propose a single embedding space both for image and text enabling to interconnect them and to select appropriate words to describe a photo. We implemented our method and tested it on cooking instructions, i.e., recipes. Various experimental results showed that our method outperforms standard baselines.
SimpleNLG is a popular open source surface realiser for the English language. For German, however, the availability of open source and non-domain specific realisers is sparse, partly due to the complexity of the German language. In this paper, we present SimpleNLG-DE, an adaption of SimpleNLG to German. We discuss which parts of the German language have been implemented and how we evaluated our implementation using the TIGER Corpus and newly created data-sets.
Neural natural language generation (NNLG) systems are known for their pathological outputs, i.e. generating text which is unrelated to the input specification. In this paper, we show the impact of semantic noise on state-of-the-art NNLG models which implement different semantic control mechanisms. We find that cleaned data can improve semantic correctness by up to 97{\%}, while maintaining fluency. We also find that the most common error is omitting information, rather than hallucination.
Learned dynamic weighting of the conditioning signal (attention) has been shown to improve neural language generation in a variety of settings. The weights applied when generating a particular output sequence have also been viewed as providing a potentially explanatory insight in the internal workings of the generator. In this paper, we reverse the direction of this connection and ask whether through the control of the attention of the model we can control its output. Specifically, we take a standard neural image captioning model that uses attention, and fix the attention to predetermined areas in the image. We evaluate whether the resulting output is more likely to mention the class of the object in that area than the normally generated caption. We introduce three effective methods to control the attention and find that these are producing expected results in up to 27.43{\%} of the cases.
We present {``}AutoJudge{''}, an automated evaluation method for conversational dialogue systems. The method works by first generating dialogues based on self-talk, i.e. dialogue systems talking to itself. Then, it uses human ratings on these dialogues to train an automated judgement model. Our experiments show that AutoJudge correlates well with the human ratings and can be used to automatically evaluate dialogue systems, even in deployed systems. In a second part, we attempt to apply AutoJudge to improve existing systems. This works well for re-ranking a set of candidate utterances. However, our experiments show that AutoJudge cannot be applied as reward for reinforcement learning, although the metric can distinguish good from bad dialogues. We discuss potential reasons, but state here already that this is still an open question for further research.
In this work, we examine whether it is possible to achieve the state of the art performance in paraphrase generation with reduced vocabulary. Our approach consists of building a convolution to sequence model (Conv2Seq) partially guided by the reinforcement learning, and training it on the subword representation of the input. The experiment on the Quora dataset, which contains over 140,000 pairs of sentences and corresponding paraphrases, found that with less than 1,000 token types, we were able to achieve performance which exceeded that of the current state of the art.
In this paper, we present a novel data-to-text system for cancer patients, providing information on quality of life implications after treatment, which can be embedded in the context of shared decision making. Currently, information on quality of life implications is often not discussed, partly because (until recently) data has been lacking. In our work, we rely on a newly developed prediction model, which assigns patients to scenarios. Furthermore, we use data-to-text techniques to explain these scenario-based predictions in personalized and understandable language. We highlight the possibilities of NLG for personalization, discuss ethical implications and also present the outcomes of a first evaluation with clinicians.
Current approaches to Natural Language Generation (NLG) for dialog mainly focus on domain-specific, task-oriented applications (e.g. restaurant booking) using limited ontologies (up to 20 slot types), usually without considering the previous conversation context. Furthermore, these approaches require large amounts of data for each domain, and do not benefit from examples that may be available for other domains. This work explores the feasibility of applying statistical NLG to scenarios requiring larger ontologies, such as multi-domain dialog applications or open-domain question answering (QA) based on knowledge graphs. We model NLG through an Encoder-Decoder framework using a large dataset of interactions between real-world users and a conversational agent for open-domain QA. First, we investigate the impact of increasing the number of slot types on the generation quality and experiment with different partitions of the QA data with progressively larger ontologies (up to 369 slot types). Second, we perform multi-task learning experiments between open-domain QA and task-oriented dialog, and benchmark our model on a popular NLG dataset. Moreover, we experiment with using the conversational context as an additional input to improve response generation quality. Our experiments show the feasibility of learning statistical NLG models for open-domain QA with larger ontologies.
People with sight impairments can access to a mathematical expression by using its LaTeX source. However, this mechanisms have several drawbacks: (1) it assumes the knowledge of the LaTeX, (2) it is slow, since LaTeX is verbose and (3) it is error-prone since LATEX is a typographical language. In this paper we study the design of a natural language generation system for producing a mathematical sentence, i.e. a natural language sentence expressing the semantics of a mathematical expression. Moreover, we describe the main results of a first human based evaluation experiment of the system for Italian language.
Statistical generators increasingly dominate the research in NLG. However, grammar-based generators that are grounded in a solid linguistic framework remain very competitive, especially for generation from deep knowledge structures. Furthermore, if built modularly, they can be ported to other genres and languages with a limited amount of work, without the need of the annotation of a considerable amount of training data. One of these generators is FORGe, which is based on the Meaning-Text Model. In the recent WebNLG challenge (the first comprehensive task addressing the mapping of RDF triples to text) FORGe ranked first with respect to the overall quality in human evaluation. We extend the coverage of FORGE{'}s open source grammatical and lexical resources for English, so as to further improve the English texts, and port them to Spanish, to achieve a comparable quality. This confirms that, as already observed in the case of SimpleNLG, a robust universal grammar-driven framework and a systematic organization of the linguistic resources can be an adequate choice for NLG applications.
We present an approach to generating natural language justifications of decisions derived from norm-based reasoning. Assuming an agent which maximally satisfies a set of rules specified in an object-oriented temporal logic, the user can ask factual questions (about the agent{'}s rules, actions, and the extent to which the agent violated the rules) as well as {``}why{''} questions that require the agent comparing actual behavior to counterfactual trajectories with respect to these rules. To produce natural-sounding explanations, we focus on the subproblem of producing natural language clauses from statements in a fragment of temporal logic, and then describe how to embed these clauses into explanatory sentences. We use a human judgment evaluation on a testbed task to compare our approach to variants in terms of intelligibility, mental model and perceived trust.
A math word problem is a narrative with a specific topic that provides clues to the correct equation with numerical quantities and variables therein. In this paper, we focus on the task of generating math word problems. Previous works are mainly template-based with pre-defined rules. We propose a novel neural network model to generate math word problems from the given equations and topics. First, we design a fusion mechanism to incorporate the information of both equations and topics. Second, an entity-enforced loss is introduced to ensure the relevance between the generated math problem and the equation. Automatic evaluation results show that the proposed model significantly outperforms the baseline models. In human evaluations, the math word problems generated by our model are rated as being more relevant (in terms of solvability of the given equations and relevance to topics) and natural (i.e., grammaticality, fluency) than the baseline models.
We introduce DisSim, a discourse-aware sentence splitting framework for English and German whose goal is to transform syntactically complex sentences into an intermediate representation that presents a simple and more regular structure which is easier to process for downstream semantic applications. For this purpose, we turn input sentences into a two-layered semantic hierarchy in the form of core facts and accompanying contexts, while identifying the rhetorical relations that hold between them. In that way, we preserve the coherence structure of the input and, hence, its interpretability for downstream tasks.
This study presents a voice assistant system to support cooking by utilizing smart speakers in Japan. This system not only speaks the procedures written in recipes point by point but also answers the common questions from users for the specified recipes. The system applies machine comprehension techniques to millions of recipes for answering the common questions in cooking such as {``}人参はどうしたらよいですか (How should I cook carrots?){''}. Furthermore, numerous machine-learning techniques are applied to generate better responses to users.
This paper describes our submission to the TL;DR challenge. Neural abstractive summarization models have been successful in generating fluent and consistent summaries with advancements like the copy (Pointer-generator) and coverage mechanisms. However, these models suffer from their extractive nature as they learn to copy words from the source text. In this paper, we propose a novel abstractive model based on Variational Autoencoder (VAE) to address this issue. We also propose a Unified Summarization Framework for the generation of summaries. Our model eliminates non-critical information at a sentence-level with an extractive summarization module and generates the summary word by word using an abstractive summarization module. To implement our framework, we combine submodules with state-of-the-art techniques including Pointer-Generator Network (PGN) and BERT while also using our new VAE-PGN abstractive model. We evaluate our model on the benchmark Reddit corpus as part of the TL;DR challenge and show that our model outperforms the baseline in ROUGE score while generating diverse summaries.
Neural abstractive document summarization is commonly approached by models that exhibit a mostly extractive behavior. This behavior is facilitated by a copy-attention which allows models to copy words from a source document. While models in the mostly extractive news summarization domain benefit from this inductive bias, they commonly fail to paraphrase or compress information from the source document. Recent advances in transfer-learning from large pretrained language models give rise to alternative approaches that do not rely on copy-attention and instead learn to generate concise and abstractive summaries. In this paper, as part of the TL;DR challenge, we compare the abstractiveness of summaries from different summarization approaches and show that transfer-learning can be efficiently utilized without any changes to the model architecture. We demonstrate that the approach leads to a higher level of abstraction for a similar performance on the TL;DR challenge tasks, enabling true natural language compression.
In this paper, we report on the results of the TL;DR challenge, discussing an extensive manual evaluation of the expected properties of a good summary based on analyzing the comments provided by human annotators.
Quantified expressions have always taken up a central position in formal theories of meaning and language use. Yet quantified expressions have so far attracted far less attention from the Natural Language Generation community than, for example, referring expressions. In an attempt to start redressing the balance, we investigate a recently developed corpus in which quantified expressions play a crucial role; the corpus is the result of a carefully controlled elicitation experiment, in which human participants were asked to describe visually presented scenes. Informed by an analysis of this corpus, we propose algorithms that produce computer-generated descriptions of a wider class of visual scenes, and we evaluate the descriptions generated by these algorithms in terms of their correctness, completeness, and human-likeness. We discuss what this exercise can teach us about the nature of quantification and about the challenges posed by the generation of quantified expressions.
Generating grounded image descriptions requires associating linguistic units with their corresponding visual clues. A common method is to train a decoder language model with attention mechanism over convolutional visual features. Attention weights align the stratified visual features arranged by their location with tokens, most commonly words, in the target description. However, words such as spatial relations (e.g. \textit{next to} and \textit{under}) are not directly referring to geometric arrangements of pixels but to complex geometric and conceptual representations. The aim of this paper is to evaluate what representations facilitate generating image descriptions with spatial relations and lead to better grounded language generation. In particular, we investigate the contribution of three different representational modalities in generating relational referring expressions: (i) pre-trained convolutional visual features, (ii) different top-down geometric relational knowledge between objects, and (iii) world knowledge captured by contextual embeddings in language models.
In Natural Language Generation (NLG), End-to-End (E2E) systems trained through deep learning have recently gained a strong interest. Such deep models need a large amount of carefully annotated data to reach satisfactory performance. However, acquiring such datasets for every new NLG application is a tedious and time-consuming task. In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised deep learning scheme that can learn from non-annotated data and annotated data when available. It uses a NLG and a Natural Language Understanding (NLU) sequence-to-sequence models which are learned jointly to compensate for the lack of annotation. Experiments on two benchmark datasets show that, with limited amount of annotated data, the method can achieve very competitive results while not using any pre-processing or re-scoring tricks. These findings open the way to the exploitation of non-annotated datasets which is the current bottleneck for the E2E NLG system development to new applications.
We present the first dataset targeted at end-to-end NLG in Czech in the restaurant domain, along with several strong baseline models using the sequence-to-sequence approach. While non-English NLG is under-explored in general, Czech, as a morphologically rich language, makes the task even harder: Since Czech requires inflecting named entities, delexicalization or copy mechanisms do not work out-of-the-box and lexicalizing the generated outputs is non-trivial. In our experiments, we present two different approaches to this this problem: (1) using a neural language model to select the correct inflected form while lexicalizing, (2) a two-step generation setup: our sequence-to-sequence model generates an interleaved sequence of lemmas and morphological tags, which are then inflected by a morphological generator.
Recently, significant improvements have been achieved in various natural language processing tasks using neural sequence-to-sequence models. While aiming for the best generation quality is important, ultimately it is also necessary to develop models that can assess the quality of their output. In this work, we propose to use the similarity between training and test conditions as a measure for models{'} confidence. We investigate methods solely using the similarity as well as methods combining it with the posterior probability. While traditionally only target tokens are annotated with confidence measures, we also investigate methods to annotate source tokens with confidence. By learning an internal alignment model, we can significantly improve confidence projection over using state-of-the-art external alignment tools. We evaluate the proposed methods on downstream confidence estimation for machine translation (MT). We show improvements on segment-level confidence estimation as well as on confidence estimation for source tokens. In addition, we show that the same methods can also be applied to other tasks using sequence-to-sequence models. On the automatic speech recognition (ASR) task, we are able to find 60{\%} of the errors by looking at 20{\%} of the data.
Deep neural networks (DNN) are quickly becoming the de facto standard modeling method for many natural language generation (NLG) tasks. In order for such models to truly be useful, they must be capable of correctly generating utterances for novel meaning representations (MRs) at test time. In practice, even sophisticated DNNs with various forms of semantic control frequently fail to generate utterances faithful to the input MR. In this paper, we propose an architecture agnostic self-training method to sample novel MR/text utterance pairs to augment the original training data. Remarkably, after training on the augmented data, even simple encoder-decoder models with greedy decoding are capable of generating semantically correct utterances that are as good as state-of-the-art outputs in both automatic and human evaluations of quality.
Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is a powerful method for learning representations of high-dimensional data. However, VAEs can suffer from an issue known as latent variable collapse (or KL term vanishing), where the posterior collapses to the prior and the model will ignore the latent codes in generative tasks. Such an issue is particularly prevalent when employing VAE-RNN architectures for text modelling (Bowman et al., 2016; Yang et al., 2017). In this paper, we present a new architecture called Full-Sampling-VAE-RNN, which can effectively avoid latent variable collapse. Compared to the general VAE-RNN architectures, we show that our model can achieve much more stable training process and can generate text with significantly better quality.
This article traces the genesis of the French derivational database Démonettev2 and shows how current architecture and content of derivational morphology resources result from theoretical developments in derivational morphology and from the users’ need. The development of this large-scale resource began a year ago and is part of the Demonext project (ANR-17-CE23-0005). Its conception is adapted from theoretical approaches of derivational morphology where lexemes, units of analysis, are grouped into families that are organized into paradigms. More precisely, Démonettev2 is basically an implementation of ParaDis, a paradigmatic model for representing morphologically complex lexical units, formed by regular processes or presenting discrepancies between form and meaning. The article focuses on the principles of morphological, structural and semantic encoding that reﬂect the methodological choices that have been made in Démonettev2. Our proposal will be illustrated with various examples of non-canonical word formations. 
This paper proposes a new way to represent morphosemantic regularities in derivational paradigms of French in the context of derivational morphology. Starting from what has already been done in Démonette, a derivational morphological lexical resource for French, we show how structures inspired by Frame Semantics and FrameNet could help with the problem of the eﬃcient representation of morphosemantic regularities in derivational paradigms. This ﬁrst phase of the experiment consisted in the representation of four French derivational subfamilies of the French lexicon with a frame-like structure in order to show how this approach could work. 
Comparison is distinctly limited in scope among grammatical categories in that it is unable, for semantic reasons, to produce comparative and superlative forms for many representatives of the word class to which it applies as a category (adjectives and their derived adverbs). In Latin and other dead languages, it is nontrivial to decide with certainty whether an adjective is gradable or not: being non-native speakers, we cannot rely on linguistic intuition; nor can a definitive answer be reached by consulting the corpus of Latin texts (the fact that an item is not attested in the surviving corpus obviously does not mean that it did not exist in Latin). What needs to be found are properties of adjectives correlated with gradability/ nongradability that are directly discernible at the level of written language. The present contribution gives one such property, showing that there is a strong correlation between gradability and the ability of an adjective to form abstract nouns. 
The LiLa project consists in the creation of a Knowledge Base of linguistic resources for Latin based on the Linked Data framework and aimed at reaching interoperability between them. To this goal, LiLa integrates all types of annotation applied to a particular word/text into a common representation where all linguistic information conveyed by a speciﬁc linguistic resource becomes accessible. The recent inclusion in the Knowledge Base of information on word formation raised a number of theoretical and practical issues concerning its treatment and representation. This paper discusses such issues, presents how they were addressed in the project and describes a number of use-case scenarios that employ the information on word formation made available in the LiLa Knowledge Base. 
 This article describes a hybrid approach for German derivational and compositional morphology. Its ﬁrst module is based on retrieval from morphological databases. The second module builds on the results of a word segmenter and uses a context-based approach by exploiting 1.8 million texts from Wikipedia for the disambiguation of multiple morphological splits. Insights from Quantitative Linguistics help countering two sparse-data problems. The results can become more ﬁne-grained during each cycle of computation and be added to the lexical input data with or without supervision. The evaluation on an inﬂight magazine shows a good coverage and an accuracy of 93% for the deep-level analyses.  
 illustrate some of the problems associated with word-formation research based upon morphologically tagged  synchronous corpora. Three problems emerged during work on the linguistic handbook ​Dictionary of affixes  used in Czech – ​Slovník afixů užívaných v češtině (Šimandl et al, 2016):  a) tokenization, b) lack of the  morphological dictionary, and c) POS tagging. This paper describes the solutions utilized by the authors of the  dictionary in response to the above listed problems. These solutions, used in SAUČ, simplistic as they may seem,  resulted in particular suggestions for improvement of the automatic morphological analysis of Czech, conducted  as a part of the NovaMorf project (Osolsobě et al. 2017).  1. Introduction The ​Dictionary of Affixes used in Czech (hereinafter referred to as SAUČ) is a new manual, which as well as the printed version issued by the Karolinum publishing house, is also available in a free electronic version (http://www.slovnikafixu.cz/). The entries are the product of thirteen contributory authors which reflect in minor variations due to authors’ individual writing styles. The dictionary is sorted alphabetically by the first letter of the particular affix (the header of the entry located on the left – prefix, in the middle – associated affix, on the right – suffix). A brief morphological characterization of the words formed by the respective affix (information about the inflection and alternations) follows. The text section summarizes information about the structural meanings / word classes corresponding to the analysed affix, the individual meanings being numbered. 2 Respective entries referring to native and loaned affixes include, a so-called, “frequency report”. Both parts are based on the analysis of data accessible through the SYN2010 language corpus. In the textual part, the authors also relied on a variety of sources (native speakers intuition or opinion, other corpora, internet). The SAUC preface further states: "When we use this dictionary, we can concentrate upon the affix system depending on their frequency or productivity." When examining affixes, the lexeme, as a unit of the language system (​langue)​, is analysed. Therefore, the lemmatised and POS tagged corpus would seem to be helpful; however the lemmatisation and POS tagging are the result of automatic morphological analysis and therefore it is of importance that SAUČ’ users have knowledge of automatic morphological analysis. We shall demonstrate, using specific examples taken from the SAUČ, how the results of automatic tagging become pitfalls for corpus based linguistic research (part 2.). In conclusion, (part 3.) of the article, will demonstrate the benefits of working with data for further development of automatic morphological analysis tools, specifically within the NovaMorf project.  
We investigate to what extent inﬂection can be automatically separated from derivation, just based on the word forms. We expect pairs of inﬂected forms of the same lemma to be closer to each other than pairs of inﬂected forms of two diﬀerent lemmas (still derived from a same root, though), given a proper distance measure. We estimate distances of word forms using edit distance, which represents character-based similarity, and word embedding similarity, which serves as a proxy to meaning similarity. Speciﬁcally, we explore Levenshtein and Jaro-Winkler edit distances, and cosine similarity of FastText word embeddings. We evaluate the separability of inﬂection and derivation on a sample from DeriNet, a database of word formation relations in Czech. We investigate the word distance measures directly, as well as embedded in a clustering setup. Best results are achieved by using a combination of Jaro-Winkler edit distance and word embedding cosine similarity, outperforming each of the individual measures. Further analysis shows that the method works better for some classes of inﬂections and derivations than for others, revealing some limitations of the method, but also supporting the idea of replacing a binary inﬂection-derivation dichotomy with a continous scale. 
This paper deals with the redesign of the Croatian derivational lexicon – CroDeriV. In its ﬁrst online version the lexicon consisted solely of verbs analyzed for morphemes. In further steps of its development, lexemes of other POS (adjectives, nouns) are analyzed, both in terms of their morphological structure and word-formation patterns, and imported into the lexicon. Dealing with new POS as well as the annotation of word-formation patterns among lexemes required the modiﬁcation of the database structure. In this paper we present a restructured version of the database, adapted to include other POS and to explicitly mark word-formation patterns. These procedures enable precise and reﬁned queries based on various parameters through the online search interface. 
DeriNet is a large linguistic resource containing over 1 million lexemes of Czech connected by almost 810 thousand links that correspond to derivational relations. In the previous version, DeriNet 1.7, it only contained very sparse annotations of features other than derivations – it listed the lemma and part-of-speech category of each lexeme and since version 1.5, a true/false ﬂag with lexemes created by compounding. The paper presents an extended version of this network, labelled DeriNet 2.0, which adds a number of features, namely annotation of morphological categories (aspect, gender and animacy) with all lexemes in the database, identiﬁcation of root morphemes in 250 thousand lexemes, annotation of ﬁve semantic labels (diminutive, possessive, female, iterative, and aspect) with 150 thousand derivational relations, a pilot annotation of parents of compounds, and another pilot annotation of so-called ﬁctitious lexemes, which connect related derivational families without a common synchronous parent. The new pieces of annotation could be added thanks to a new ﬁle format for storing the network, which aims to be general and extensible, and therefore possibly usable to other similar projects. 
In this work, we introduce a new large hand-annotated morpheme-segmentation lexicon of Persian words and present an algorithm that builds a morphological network using this segmented lexicon. The resulting network captures both derivational and inﬂectional relations. The algorithm for inducing the network approximates the distinction between root morphemes and aﬃxes using the number of morpheme occurrences in the lexicon. We evaluate the quality (in the sense of linguistic correctness) of the resulting network empirically and compare it to the quality of a network generated in a setup based on manually distinguished non-root morphemes. In the second phase of this work, we evaluated various strategies to add new words (unprocessed in the segmented lexicon) into an existing morphological network automatically. For this purpose, we created primary morphological networks based on two initial data: a manually segmented lexicon and an automatically segmented lexicon created by unsupervised MORFESSOR. Then new words are segmented using MORFESSOR and are added to the network. In our experiments, both supervised and unsupervised versions of MORFESSOR are evaluated and the results show that the procedure of network expansion could be performed automatically with reasonable accuracy. 
The aim of this paper is to open a discussion on harmonization of existing data resources related to derivational morphology. We present a newly assembled collection of eleven harmonized resources named “Universal Derivations” (clearly being inspired by the success story of the Universal Dependencies initiative in treebanking), as well as the harmonization process that brings the individual resources under a uniﬁed annotation scheme. 
I describe an analysis of valence-changing verbal morphology implemented as a library extending the LinGO Grammar Matrix customization system. This analysis is based on decomposition of these operations into rule components, which in turn are expressed as lexical rule supertypes that implement specific, isolatable constraints. I also show how common variations of these constraints can be abstracted and parameterized by their axes of variation. I then demonstrate how these constraints can be recomposed in various combinations to provide broad coverage of the typological variation of valence change found in the world’s languages. I evaluate the coverage of this library on five held-out world languages that exhibit these phenomena, achieving 79% coverage and 2% overgeneration. 
The present study investigates some creative aspects of derivational morphology in English and Japanese. Focusing on hapax legomena in large corpora, a strong indicator of online composition, relevant English and Japanese hapaxes are extracted from the British National Corpus and Balanced Corpus of Contemporary Written Japanese: agentive hapax nominals (e.g. eyeballer, kakeochi-sha ‘one who elopes’), antiagentive hapax nominals (e.g. directee, hi-seikyuu-sha ‘one who is demanded’), and hapax adjectivals (e.g. tearable, tooki-kanoo(-na) ‘dumpable’). These innovations receive an in-depth analysis from morphological, semantic, and discoursive viewpoints. The BNC/BCCWJ survey indicates that (i) semantic, functional, or morphosyntactic extension, a subprocess of grammaticalization, is constantly made under contextual pressure and (ii) it is primarily motivated by contextinduced recategorization. 
The age of Big Data has enabled the creation of artiﬁcial intelligence solutions that has allowed systems to better respond to their users requests and needs. Applications such as recommender systems, automated content generation systems, etc. are increasingly leveraging such large amounts of data to make better informed decisions about how to tailor their output appropriately. However, the opaqueness of these AI systems in how they derive their decisions or outputs has led to an increasing call for transparency with increasing concerns for the potential of bias to occur in areas such as ﬁnance and criminal law. The culmination of these calls have lead to tentative legislative steps. For example, the "Right to explanation" as part of the recently enacted European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation. Natural Language Generation (NLG) has been used in successfully in many data-to-text applications allowing users to gain insights from their data sets. Whilst NLG technology has a strong role to play in generating explanations for AI models there still remains inherit challenges in developing and deploying text generation systems within a commercial context. In this talk I will explore the role and potential that Natural Language Explainable AI can have within trivago and the wider industry. trivago is a leading accommodation meta-search engine that enables users ﬁnd the right hotel or apartment at the right price. In particular, this talk will describe the work we have done to apply natural language solutions within trivago and the challenges of applying AI solutions from a commercial perspective. Finally, this talk will also explore the potential applications of where explainable AI approaches could be used within trivago. 
Good quality explanations of artiﬁcial intelligence (XAI) reasoning must be written (and evaluated) for an explanatory purpose, targeted towards their readers, have a good narrative and causal structure, and highlight where uncertainty and data quality affect the AI output. I discuss these challenges from a Natural Language Generation (NLG) perspective, and highlight four speciﬁc “NLG for XAI” research challenges. 
The ﬁeld of Explainable Artiﬁcial Intelligence attempts to solve the problem of algorithmic opacity. Many terms and notions have been introduced recently to deﬁne Explainable AI, however, these terms seem to be used interchangeably, which is leading to confusion in this rapidly expanding ﬁeld. As a solution to overcome this problem, we present an analysis of the existing research literature and examine how key terms, such as transparency, intelligibility, interpretability, and explainability are referred to and in what context. This paper, thus, moves towards a standard terminology for Explainable AI. Keywords— Explainable AI, black-box, NLG, Theoretical Issues, Transparency, Intelligibility, Interpretability, Explainability 
Among challenges for eXplainable Artiﬁcial Intelligence (XAI) is explanation generation. In this paper we put the stress on this issue by focusing on a semantic representation of the content of an explanation that could be common to any kind of XAI. We investigate knowledge representations, and discuss the beneﬁts of conceptual graph structures for being a basis to represent explanations in AI. 
Counterfactual explanations present an effective way to interpret predictions of black-box machine learning algorithms. Whereas there is a signiﬁcant body of research on counterfactual reasoning in philosophy and theoretical computer science, little attention has been paid to counterfactuals in regard to their explanatory capacity. In this paper, we review methods of argumentation theory and natural language generation that counterfactual explanation generation could beneﬁt from most and discuss prospective directions for further research on counterfactual generation in explainable Artiﬁcial Intelligence. 
We present a set of capabilities allowing an agent planning with moral and social norms represented in temporal logic to respond to queries about its norms and behaviors in natural language, and for the human user to add and remove norms directly in natural language. The user may also pose hypothetical modiﬁcations to the agent’s norms and inquire about their effects. 
Concordancers are interactive software that searches for the input word and displays the list of its usages in a corpus. They have been widely used by language learners and educators to analyze word usages. Because naively listing all usages of the word overwhelms users, determining how to summarize the list is important for usability. Previous studies summarized the list by using the surrounding word patterns and showed their frequency; however, such a naive method counts substantially the same usages, such as “the book” and “a book,” separately; hence, such a method is not very informative to learners. Here, a novel approach for summarizing the list is proposed. According to the user’s input word, the proposed system semantically visualizes each usage of the word using contextualized word embeddings interactively. It is shown that the system responds quickly with intuitive use cases. 
The AIWolf project has been holding contests for these years to play the Werewolf game (“Mafia”) by automatic agents. A difficulty of the Werewolf game is that the game is an imperfect information game, very small limited amount of information is shown to players, other than the player’s own role information. Therefore, inference of probabilities for each player agent's role could not be confident theoretically, difficult to utter appropriate reasons when simply based on the probabilities. Focusing on a genuine seer and a fake seer, we implemented our player agent system that can make inferences depending on the progress of the game, defining role patterns based on the utterances of the genuine and fake seers. 
We propose a data augmentation method that combines Doc2vec and Label spreading in text classiﬁcation tasks. The feature of our approach is the use of unlabeled samples, which are easier to obtain than labeled samples. We use them as an aid to the classiﬁcation model to improve the accuracy of its prediction. We used this method to classify several text data sets including the natural language branch of the AIWolf contest. As a result of the experiments, we conﬁrmed that the prediction accuracy is improved by applying our proposed method. 
The “Werewolf game” is a popular multiplayer game wherein “villagers” try to ﬁgure out who is a “werewolf” through conversations. Werewolves usually pretend to be villagers. In this paper, we studied conversations in game logs in order to investigate how werewolves’ cooperation contributed to increasing the winning percentage of the werewolves’ team. As the number of “whispers” that are utterances via werewolves’ private chat may be regarded as a measure of the werewolves’ cooperation, we investigated the relation between the number of whispers and the winning percentage. As the result, we observed that the winning percentage of werewolves’ team increased by 63 points at most when the number of whispers of at least two werewolves was more than 106. 
Neural generation methods for task-oriented dialogue typically generate from a meaning representation that is populated using a database of domain information, such as a table of data describing a restaurant. While earlier work focused solely on the semantic fidelity of outputs, recent work has started to explore methods for controlling the style of the generated text while simultaneously achieving semantic accuracy. Here we experiment with two stylistic benchmark tasks, generating language that exhibits variation in personality, and generating discourse contrast. We report a huge performance improvement in both stylistic control and semantic accuracy over the state of the art on both of these benchmarks. We test several different models and show that putting stylistic conditioning in the decoder and eliminating the semantic re-ranker used in earlier models results in more than 15 points higher BLEU for Personality, with a reduction of semantic error to near zero. We also report an improvement from .75 to .81 in controlling contrast and a reduction in semantic error from 16{\%} to 2{\%}.
Previous work on visual storytelling mainly focused on exploring image sequence as evidence for storytelling and neglected textual evidence for guiding story generation. Motivated by human storytelling process which recalls stories for familiar images, we exploit textual evidence from similar images to help generate coherent and meaningful stories. To pick the images which may provide textual experience, we propose a two-step ranking method based on image object recognition techniques. To utilize textual information, we design an extended Seq2Seq model with two-channel encoder and attention. Experiments on the VIST dataset show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art baseline models without heavy engineering.
The move from pipeline Natural Language Generation (NLG) approaches to neural end-to-end approaches led to a loss of control in sentence planning operations owing to the conflation of intermediary micro-planning stages into a single model. Such control is highly necessary when the text should be tailored to respect some constraints such as which entity to be mentioned first, the entity position, the complexity of sentences, etc. In this paper, we introduce fine-grained control of sentence planning in neural data-to-text generation models at two levels - realization of input entities in desired sentences and realization of the input entities in the desired position among individual sentences. We show that by augmenting the input with explicit position identifiers, the neural model can achieve a great control over the output structure while keeping the naturalness of the generated text intact. Since sentence level metrics are not entirely suitable to evaluate this task, we used a metric specific to our task that accounts for the model{'}s ability to achieve control. The results demonstrate that the position identifiers do constraint the neural model to respect the intended output structure which can be useful in a variety of domains that require the generated text to be in a certain structure.
Due to the absence of labeled data, discourse parsing still remains challenging in some languages. In this paper, we present a simple and efficient method to conduct zero-shot Chinese text-level dependency parsing by leveraging English discourse labeled data and parsing techniques. We first construct the Chinese-English mapping from the level of sentence and elementary discourse unit (EDU), and then exploit the parsing results of the corresponding English translations to obtain the discourse trees for the Chinese text. This method can automatically conduct Chinese discourse parsing, with no need of a large scale of Chinese labeled data.
This paper describes the application of delexicalized cross-lingual parsing on Occitan with a view to building the first dependency treebank of this language. Occitan is a Romance language spoken in the south of France and in parts of Italy and Spain. It is a relatively low-resourced language and does not have a syntactically annotated corpus as of yet. In order to facilitate the manual annotation process, we train parsing models on the existing Romance corpora from the Universal Dependencies project and apply them to Occitan. Special attention is given to the effect of this cross-lingual annotation on the work of human annotators in terms of annotation speed and ease. 
 This paper presents work on the creation of a Universal Dependency (UD) treebank for Wolof as the first UD treebank within the Northern Atlantic branch of the Niger-Congo languages. The paper reports on various issues related to word segmentation for tokenization and the mapping of PoS tags, morphological features and dependency relations to existing conventions for annotating Wolof. It also outlines some specific constructions as a starting point for discussing several more general UD annotation guidelines, in particular for noun class marking, deixis encoding, and focus marking.  
This paper presents the conversion of the reference language resources for Croatian and Slovenian morphology processing to UD morphological specifications. We show that the newly available training corpora and inflectional dictionaries improve the baseline stanfordnlp performance obtained on officially released UD datasets for lemmatization, morphology prediction and dependency parsing, illustrating the potential value of such satellite UD resources for languages with rich morphology. 
This paper investigates the word order used by Yoda, a character from the Star Wars universe. His clauses typically contain an Object, Oblique and/or non-finite part of the predicate followed by the subject and the finite predicate/auxiliary/copula, e.g. Help you it will. Using the sentences in Yodish from the scripts of the Star War films, this paper examines three crosslinguistically common tendencies, which can be explained by optimization of processing: the trade-off between entropy of S and O order and morphological cues, minimization of dependency lengths, and the tendency to place the verb in the end of a clause. For comparison, a standardized version of Yoda’s sentences is used, as well as the Universal Dependencies corpora. The results of quantitative analyses indicate that Yodish is less adjusted to human processor’s needs than standard English and other human languages. 
We report on the conversion of the Hamburg Dependency Treebank (Foth et al., 2014) to Universal Dependencies. The HDT consists of more than 200.000 sentences annotated with dependency structure, making every attempt at manual conversion or manual post-processing extremely costly. The conversion employs an unranked tree transducer. This formalism allows to express transformation rules in a concise way, guarantees the well-formedness of the output and is predictable to the rule writers. Together with the release of a converted subset of the HDT spanning 3 million tokens, we release an interactive workbench for writing and reﬁning tree transducer rules. Our conversion achieves a very high labeled accuracy with respect to a manually converted gold standard of 97.3%. Up to now, the conversion effort took about 1000 hours of work. 
 The aim of this paper is to extend the representation of coordination in Universal Dependencies in a way that makes it possible to distinguish between diﬀerent embeddings in coordinate structures.  
This paper presents the ﬁrst treebank of Mbyá Guaraní, a Tupí-Guaraní language spoken in Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay. The Mbyá treebank is part of Universal Dependencies, a project that aims to create a set of guidelines for the consistent grammatical annotation of typologically different languages. We describe the composition of the treebank, and non-trivial choices that were made in the adaptation of Universal Dependencies guidelines to the annotation of Mbyá. 
This paper attempts to evaluate some of the systematic differences in Uralic Universal Dependencies treebanks from a perspective that would help to introduce reasonable improvements in treebank annotation consistency within this language family. The study finds that the coverage of Uralic languages in the project is already relatively high, and the majority of typically Uralic features are already present and can be discussed on the basis of existing treebanks. Some of the idiosyncrasies found in individual treebanks stem from language-internal grammar traditions, and could be a target for harmonization in later phases. 
In this paper we present the ConlluEditor annotation tool for manual annotation of ﬁles in CoNLL-U format, such as Universal Dependencies treebanks. Apart from providing a graphical editor for basic and enhanced dependencies, multi-token words, it also runs validation scripts to ﬁnd potential errors. ConlluEditor uses a client-server architecture. It is freely-available under the 3-Clause BSD License. 
The parataxis relation as deﬁned for Universal Dependencies 2.0 is general and, for this reason, sometimes hard to distinguish from competing analyses, such as coordination, conj, or apposition, appos. The speciﬁc subtypes that are listed for parataxis are also quite different in character. In this study we ﬁrst show that the actual practice by UD-annotators is varied, using the parallel UD (PUD-) treebanks as data. We then review the current deﬁnitions and guidelines and suggest improvements. 
We propose a method to represent dependency trees as dense vectors through the recursive application of Long Short-Term Memory networks to build Recursive LSTM Trees (RLTs). We show that the dense vectors produced by Recursive LSTM Trees replace the need for structural features by using them as feature vectors for a greedy Arc-Standard transition-based dependency parser. We also show that RLTs have the ability to incorporate useful information from the bi-LSTM contextualized representation used by Cross and Huang (2016) and Kiperwasser and Goldberg (2016b). The resulting dense vectors are able to express both structural information relating to the dependency tree, as well as sequential information relating to the position in the sentence. The resulting parser only requires the vector representations of the top two items on the parser stack, which is, to the best of our knowledge, the smallest feature set ever published for Arc-Standard parsers to date, while still managing to achieve competitive results. 
This study focuses on a comprehensive analysis and manual re-annotation of the Turkish IMST-UD Treebank, which was automatically converted from the IMST Treebank (Sulubacak et al., 2016b). In accordance with the Universal Dependencies’ guidelines and the necessities of Turkish grammar, the existing treebank was revised. The current study presents the revisions that were made alongside the motivations behind the major changes. Moreover, it reports the parsing results of a transition-based dependency parser and a graph-based dependency parser obtained over the previous and updated versions of the treebank. In light of these results, we have observed that the re-annotation of the Turkish IMST-UD treebank improves performance with regards to dependency parsing. 
The paper considers the problems in transferring the sentences with elliptical elements from the original BulTreeBank into the Universal Dependencies style. The similarities and diﬀerences between the original constituency annotation scheme and the target dependency one are outlined to show that the current UD scheme needs elaboration to capture more complex cases. 
This paper discusses an empirical refoundation of selected Greenbergian word order universals based on a data analysis of the Universal Dependencies project. The nature of the data we work on allows us to extract rich details for testing well-known typological universals and constitutes therefore a valuable basis for validating Greenberg’s universals. Our results show that we can refine some Greenbergian universals in a more empirical and accurate way by means of a data-driven typological analysis. 
Building a treebank from scratch can easily be an elaborate, highly time consuming task, especially when working with a minority language with moderately complex morphology and no existing resources. It is also then typically true that language experts and informants with suitable skill sets are a very scarce resource. In this experiment I have attempted to work in parallel on building NLP resources while gathering and annotating the treebank. In particular, I aim to build a decent coverage morphologically annotated lexicon suitable for rule-based morphological analysis as well as accompanying rules for basic morphosyntactic analysis. I propose here a workflow, that I have found useful in avoiding redoing same work with related NLP resource construction. 
I present theoretical arguments and new empirical evidence for an information-theoretic principle of word order: information locality, the idea that words that strongly predict each other should be close to each other in linear order. I show that information locality can be derived under the assumption that natural language is a code that enables efﬁcient communication while minimizing information-processing costs involved in online language comprehension, using recent psycholinguistic theories to characterize those processing costs information-theoretically. I argue that information locality subsumes and extends the previously-proposed principle of dependency length minimization (DLM), which has shown great explanatory power for predicting word order in many languages. Finally, I show corpus evidence that information locality has improved explanatory power over DLM in two domains: in predicting which dependencies will have shorter and longer lengths across 50 languages, and in predicting the preferred order of adjectives in English. 
This paper investigates which annotation scheme of dependency treebank is more congruent for the measurement of syntactic complexity and cognitive constraint of language materials. Two representatives of semantic- and syntactic-oriented annotation schemes, the Universal Dependencies (UD) and the Surface-Syntactic Universal Dependencies (SUD), are under discussion. The results show that, on the one hand, natural languages based on both annotation schemes follow the universal linguistic law of Dependency Distance Minimization (DDM); on the other hand, according to the metric of Mean Dependency Distances (MDDs), the SUD annotation scheme that accords with traditional dependency syntaxes are more expedient to measure syntactic difficulty and cognitive demand. 
Language unit is a fundamental conception in modern linguistics, but the boundaries are not clear between language levels both in the past and present. As language is a multi-level system, quantification rather than microscopic grammatical analysis should be used to investigate into this question. In this paper, Menzerath-Altmann law is used to make out the basic language units in written Chinese. The results show that “stroke > component > word > clause > sentence” is the hierarchical structure of written Chinese. 
We present a comparative analysis of PP ordering in English and (Mandarin) Chinese, two languages with distinct typological word order characteristics. Previous work on PP orderings have mainly focused on English using data of relatively small size. Here we leverage corpora of much larger scale with straightforward annotations. We use the Penn Treebank for English, which includes three corpora that cover both written and spoken domains, and the Chinese Penn Treebank for Chinese. We explore the individual effect of dependency length, the argument status of the PP (argument or adjunct) and the traditional adverbial ordering rule, Manner before Place before Time. In addition, we evaluate the predictive power of dependency length and argument status with weights estimated from logistic regression models. We show that while dependency length plays a strong role across genre for English, it only exerts a mild effect in Chinese. On the other hand, the argument status of the PP has a pronounced role in both languages, that is, there exists a strong tendency for the argument-like PP to appear closer to the head verb than the adjunct-like PP. Our work contributes empirically to the long-standing proposal in linguistic typology that crosslinguistic word ordering preference is driven by cooperating and competing principles. 
Discontinous dependencies are one of the hallmarks of human languages. The investigation of the locality constraints imposed on such long-distance dependencies is a core aspect of syntactic explanations. The aim of this work is to investigate locality constraints in object relative clauses adopting a theory-driven and quantitative point of view. Based on a comparison of the theoretically expected and the observed counts of features of object relative clauses, we study which set of features plays a role in the syntactic computation of locality (type, number, animacy). We ﬁnd both effects predicted by a narrow and a broad view of intervention locality. For example, in Italian the feature number triggers a numerically stronger effect than in English, a prediction of the narrow, grammar-driven view of locality. We also ﬁnd that the feature animacy plays a role in the frequency of object relative clauses, an effect predicted by a broader view of locality. 
Although the correlational results are a good foundation for theorizing, it is actually still unclear what is the explanation for the higher predictive power of learning FWs for syntactic development. At the early stages of syntax, children learn both a vocabulary of FWs and of CWs; and children do learn to produce verb-object combinations early, not only determiner-noun ones. Nevertheless, it is the acquisition of determiners as vocabulary items, and not of verbs, that best predicts a child’s syntactic development. In the present study, our goal is to provide an explanation for FWs’ advantage over CWs in providing a learning environment for principles of syntax while being learned as vocabulary items. Our starting point is the most significant difference between CWs and FWs which is that CWs have rich semantic content whereas FWs are grammatical words that have little or none. This implies that CWs require a learning format where words are matched to their meaning in some non-linguistic context (Macnamara, 1972), but may not necessarily need a syntactic context to acquire their meaning (Ninio, 2016). By contrast, FWs cannot be learned from the non-linguistic context; they are words whose whole purpose is to participate in some combinatory process with another word. It follows that learning them requires multiword input that will make possible to observe their syntactic behaviour. Thus, our hypothesis is that the acquisition of FWs is better connected to syntactic development than the learning of CWs because their learning necessarily involves multiword input, hence it necessitates the mastery of syntactic principles. CWs, as words possessing semantic content, can be learned from singleword utterances, as their meaning is learned from the nonlinguistic context. We therefore predict that CWs are more likely to be learned from single-word input than FWs; the latter are more likely to be learned from multiword input sentences. To make the comparison between single-word and multiword as equitable as possible, we took as multiword input sentences the shortest possible multi-word combinations, which are two-words long sentences possessing syntactic connectivity. The hypotheses were tested by two different comparisons: first, we compared the parental input of content words (CWs) and of function words (FWs) as either single-word utterances or as heads of twoword syntactic combinations. Second, we looked at words occurring in children’s single-word sentences and compared them with the heads of their two-word syntactic combinations. The hypothesis was that FWs are presented, and learned, as strongly syntactic elements, while CWs, less so. We expect a significant difference between FWs and CWs in proportion of tokens in single-word and multiword uses, both in the parental input and in children’s own spontaneous productions. 2. Method 2.1 Participants For English-language parental and child samples we systematically sampled the English transcripts in the CHILDES (Child Language Data Exchange System) archive (MacWhinney, 2000). The CHILDES is a public domain database for corpora on first and second language acquisition. The publicly available, shared archive contains documentation of the speech of more than 500 English-speaking parents addressed to their young children. The CHILDES archive stores the transcribed observations collected in various different research projects. In building our corpora, we followed closely the principles established in linguistics for constructing systematically assembled large corpora (Francis and Kučera, 1979).  We selected projects among the ones available using the criteria that the observations were of normally developing young children with no diagnosed hearing or speech problems, and of their parents, native speakers of English, their speech produced in the context of naturalistic, dyadic parent-child interaction. We restricted the child's age during the observed period to three years and six months. This process resulted in the selection of parents and children from 33 research projects in the CHILDES archive: the British projects Belfast, Howe, Korman, Manchester, and Wells, and the American projects Bates, BernsteinRatner, Bliss, Bloom 1970 and 1973, Brent, Brown, Clark, Cornell, Demetras, Feldman, Gleason, Harvard Home-School, Higginson, Kuczaj, MacWhinney, McMillan, Morisset, New England, Peters-Wilson, Post, Rollins, Sachs, Suppes, Tardif, Valian, Van Houten, and Warren-Leubecker (MacWhinney, 2000). From these projects, we selected 471 observational studies involving a target child of the desired young age range, namely, below three years and six months. 2.2 Parents’ corpus We built a corpus of parental utterances containing single-word and two-word sentences. Each parent was selected individually, so that from the same research project involving the same target child, we included in the study either the mother, or the father, or both parents as separate speakers, as long as either or both passed the criteria for inclusion. In 35 of the 471 studies there were two active parents interacting with the target child, resulting in a parental sample of 506 different parents. In order to avoid severely unequal contributions to the pooled corpus, the number of utterances included from each parent was restricted to a maximum of 3,000, counting from the beginning of observations. We have excluded the speech of parents addressed to other adults present in the observational session or on the telephone, as this speech may be ignored by young children because of unfamiliar subjects. Contextual comments were checked in order to ascertain that we included only spontaneous utterances from target parent to target child. The resultant parental corpus contains almost 1.5 million (1,470,811) running words of transcribed speech based on naturalistic observations of interaction between parents and their young children, representing several hundred hours of transcribed speech. Most of the children addressed were under three years of age, and 93% of the parents in the sample talked to a child between one year and two and a half years of age in all or the majority of the observations we included in the corpus. The mean age of the children addressed was 2.25 years. The corpora of English-language parental child-directed speech represent the linguistic input that young children receive when acquiring syntax. Although each separate study is by necessity limited in its coverage of the phenomenon, the different studies pooled together can provide the requisite solid database for generalization. The use of pooled corpora of unrelated parents as a representation of the linguistic input is a relatively conventional move in child language research (e.g., Goodman et al., 2008). Multiple speakers of child-directed speech may provide a good estimate of the total linguistic input to which children are exposed, which includes, besides the speech of the individual mother or father, also the speech of grandparents, aunts and uncles, older siblings and other family members, neighbours, care professionals, and so forth, represented in our corpus by the speech of mothers and fathers unrelated to the individual child. The pooled database represents the language behaviour exhibited by the community as a whole when addressing young children. The analyses of a study using corpus data do not attempt to demonstrate that particular children learned particular patterns of use from their own parents. When working with a corpus pooling the speech data of a large number of, respectively, parents and children, the aim is, rather, to create a data set of typical child directed speech and use this to make predictions about children’s contrastive mastery of different patterns, thus finding out which of a possible set of factors are most predictive of development. Thus, the variability exploited for statistical testing is not individual differences but, rather, contrasts between the effects of different potential sources of input. As our analytic plan was to find what kind of input, single-word or multiword sentences, was more likely to serve as a model for learning words of the various form-classes by young children, we manually checked the transcribed dialogue and the action and other contextual comments in the CHILDES archive in order to ascertain that we include only spontaneous utterances from target parent to target child. This means we  excluded parental utterances if they imitated the child’s previous utterance, if in order to ask a clarification question or to provide feedback. We wanted parental utterances that can serve as models for the child’s learning -- if the parent imitates the child, this cannot be considered a model for new learning. This was in particular important for single-word sentences by parents that were likely to be verbatim repetitions of children’s single-word sentences. The exclusion of such utterances alongside children’s imitation ensured that we did not arrive at a positive correlation between parental and child frequencies for particular types of words because of mutual imitation of participant speakers. We focused on parents’ single-word utterances and their two-word long sentences possessing syntactic structure, excluding utterances consisting of vocatives or an interjections, or where one of the two words of an utterance was a vocative or an interjection. Unfinished or cut off utterances, or containing words not transcribed in the original were also excluded. Besides these exclusions, we used the original transcripts’ separation into sentences as our criterion for identifying single-word and two-word utterances. This corpus represents the shortest linguistic input that young children receive when acquiring syntax. Parents produced 25,694 single-word utterances and 23,141 two-words long sentences. The total number of sentences by parents processed in this study was 48,834. 2.3 Children's corpus Samples of one-word and two-word utterances from 471 children were taken from the same English transcripts in the CHILDES archive from which we took the parents’ speech. We restricted the contribution of each individual child to 300 multiword sentences, starting from the first observation in which they produced multiword utterances. Children's utterances were included only if they were spontaneous, namely, not immediate imitations of preceding adult utterances. For each utterance marked in the original transcriptions as one uttered by the child, we checked the context to make certain that the line was indeed child speech (and not, for example, an action description or parental sentence erroneously marked as child speech). The size of the resulting pooled child corpus is 194,359 running words. It contains 101,064 utterances; this makes the mean length of utterance (MLU) in words 1.92. Similar to the group of parents, we are treating young children acquiring English as their first language as a homogeneous group, as far as the important characteristics of their syntax is concerned. In this, we follow the tradition of researchers who examine pooled corpora of child speech for various characteristics thought to reflect on the relevant class of child speakers (Radford, 1990 ; Serratrice et al., 2003). For this study, we selected the children who have well-mastered two-word speech. Our criterion was that they not only produced some two-word sentences but that they have already started to combine three words in syntactic combinations. Of the total sample of 471 children, 350 children produced at least three sentences of three words in syntactic combination, that is, excluding vocatives, interjections, or syntactically unrelated words, during the period of observation sampled in the study. The mean age of the children was 2 years and 18 days (SD = 4 months 8 days); range 14-42 months). They produced 24,429 single-word utterances and 11,642 two-word long syntactically structured sentences. The total number of sentences by children processed in this study was 36,070. 3. Data analysis 3.1 Lemmatizing verbs and nouns We lemmatized all verbs in the corpus into their respective stem-groups. Lemmatization is the grouping of related verb forms that share the same stem and differ only in inflection or spelling. For example, eat, eats, ate, eaten, and eating all belong to the stem-group or lemma of eat. In case of irregular verbs changing their shape when inflected such as had and has of the verb have, these forms were also included in the lemma of the relevant stem. This process neutralizes differences in morphological shape irrelevant for the syntactic behaviour of verbs, such as differences of tense, aspect, and person. This analysis assumes that young children ignore the differences in morphological form between verbs belonging to the same lemma, so that  they treat an inflected form such as eats as equivalent to an uninflected form such as eat. Similarly, we collapsed singular and plural nouns into a single noun-stem category.  3.2 Syntactic annotation for grammatical relations.  Sentences were parsed manually for syntactic structure. We based our dependency analyses on the detailed descriptions of Hudson’s English Word Grammar (Hudson, 1990) with its online update (Hudson, 2014). We also consulted descriptive grammars of English, and in particular Quirk, Greenbaum, Leech, and Svartvik (1985). For each sentence, the root (namely, the highest element syntactically) of the dependency structure was identified and subsequently tagged for form class membership (see below). Syntactic annotation of the sentence was done by graduate students at the Hebrew University with training in linguistics. It relied on extensive coding instructions and a very large collection of annotated exemplars. We checked for reliability by having three pairs of coders blindly recode 1,900 utterances produced by four different parents and two children. A checking of all reliability codes showed that the agreement of each coder with the others was above 95%, based on codes actually given by the relevant pairs of coders. Throughout coding, all problem cases were discussed and resolved. Ultimately, each coded utterance was double-checked by another coder. Classifying roots for form-class: The root-words were classified according to categories of form-classes. Table 1 presents the form-classes employed, with CWs separated from FWs.  _________________________________________________________________________________  Symbol  Definition of form-class  Examples of words in category  Content words (CWs)  VB  Lexical verbs  come, go, want, get, see, eat  NN  Common nouns and proper nouns  baby, ball, bottle, bear, bird , Anna,  David, Mommy, Nina  AJ  Adjectives  big, little, red, wet, good, bad  AV  Adverbs  very, here, there, now, again,  beautifully, slowly, gently  Function words (FWs)  AuxV PR DT PP PT SU  Auxiliary verbs, including copulas and the dummy verb ‘do’ Pronouns, e.g. demonstratives, indefinites, interrogatives Determiners, e.g. articles, numerals, possessive pronouns, possessors Prepositions Particles Subordinators  be, was, can, may, have (auxiliary), seem, do I, he, they, this, that, somebody, something, one, who, which a, an, the, this, that, some, two, my, your, John’s, no to, from, in, on, like, for, by up, off, on, in that, which, where, when, because  _________________________________________________________________________________  Table 1. Form-Class Categories Used in the Study to Classify Roots of Sentences.  Table 2 presents the distribution of parents’ single-word utterances and roots of two-word sentences by part of speech (POS)  POS Noun Verb Pronoun Adjective Adverb Particle Determiner Preposition Auxiliary Verb Subordinator Total  Tokens of syntactic roots  Single-word utterances 11,034 4,235 3,398 3,306 3,642 76 0 0 0 0 25,694  Two-word sentences 2,708 12,351 391 1,359 676 0 4,541 825 289 1 23,141  Table 2. Distribution of Parents’ Single-Word Utterances and Roots of Two-Word Sentences by Part of Speech (POS)  POS Noun Verb Pronoun Adjective Adverb Particle Determiner Preposition Auxiliary Verb Subordinator Total  Tokens of syntactic roots  Single word utterances  Two-word sentences  14,559  1,500  2,482  3,481  2,280  118  1,794  385  3,109  298  187  0  14  4,001  0  1,365  4  493  0  
Extracting the complement outside a subject has been claimed to be more difﬁcult than out of the object (Chomsky, 1973, a.o). In a series of controlled experiments, we compare extraction out of subject and out of object in French, and we also compare relative clauses and wh-questions. As it turns out, relativizing out of the subject is easier than out of the object, while the opposite pattern holds for wh-questions. We claim that our results cast doubt on a universal syntactic constraint on this type of operation, and call for a discourse based explanation, since the discourse function of relative clauses is different from that of wh-questions. 
This present pilot study investigates the relationship between dependency distance and frequency based on the analysis of an English dependency treebank. The preliminary result shows that there is a non-linear relation between dependency distance and frequency. This relation between them can be further formalized as a power law function which can be used to predict the distribution of dependency distance in a treebank. 
The paper is focused on the analysis of the relationship between the full valency of the predicate and the position of enclitics in the clause. For this analysis, ones of the oldest Old Czech prose texts were used. We set up the hypothesis - the higher the full valency of the predicate, the lower the probability of the occurrence of the enclitic after the initial phrase of the clause – and test it. The hypothesis was corroborated only for narrative texts. In the case of poetic texts, the hypothesis was rejected. 
 This paper expands on recent studies of very large treebank collections aiming to ﬁnd empirical evidence for language universals, speciﬁcally for the functionally motivated Dependency Length Minimization (DLM) hypothesis. According to DLM grammars are set up to support the expression of utterances in a way that minimizes the distance between heads and dependents. We construct several incremental baselines that lead from the random free order linearization to the real language by adding various word order constraints. We conduct detailed analyses on 55 treebanks and ﬁnd that all of the constraints contribute to DLM. We show that DLM on the one hand shapes the regularity and on the other motivates the attested exceptions from canonical word order. The ﬁndings contribute to a more ﬁne-grained, differentiated picture of the role of DLM in the interaction of competing constraints on grammar and language use.  
Dependency length minimization (DLM, also called dependency distance minimization) is studied by many authors and identified as a property of natural languages. In this paper we show that DLM can be interpreted as the flux size minimization and study the advantages of such a view. First it allows us to understand why DLM is cognitively motivated and how it is related to the constraints on the processing of sentences. Second, it opens the door to the definition of a big range of variations of DLM, taking into account other characteristics of the flux such as nested constructions and projectivity. 
Lengths (in words) of projective and non-projective sentences from a Czech UD dependency treebank are compared. It is shown that non-projective sentences are significantly longer (in addition, the same result was obtained in this study also for Arabic, Polish, Russian, and Slovak). The hyperpascal distribution, which was suggested as the model for frequency distribution of sentence length measured in words, fits well the data from both projective and non-projective sentences; however, its parameters attain different values for the two groups. Proportions of non-projective sentences in the treebanks used are presented, together with a discussion on factors which can influence them. 
 We report on a corpus study of the use of reﬂexive vs. nonreﬂexive possessives in Estonian sentences headed by verbs taking an allative argument. We parsed the Estonian National Corpus using UDPipe trained with the Estonian Dependency Corpus, extracted relevant data automatically, eliminated false positives and annotated the data by hand. This allowed us to document effects of grammatical functions, word order and person on the choice of a reﬂexive vs. nonreﬂexive, using generalized linear mixed models. We hypothesize that the documented effects are due to the combined effects of grammatical relations, information structure, and ambiguity avoidance.  
This paper is centered around two main contributions : the first one consists in introducing several procedures for generating random dependency trees with constraints; we later use these artificial trees to compare their properties with the properties of natural trees (i.e trees extracted from treebanks) and analyze the relationships between these properties in natural and artificial settings in order to find out which relationships are formally constrained and which are linguistically motivated. We take into consideration five metrics: tree length, height, maximum arity, mean dependency distance and mean flux weight, and also look into the distribution of local configurations of nodes. This analysis is based on UD treebanks (version 2.3, Nivre et al. 2018) for four languages: Chinese, English, French and Japanese. 
Characterizing the distribution of crossing dependencies in natural language dependency trees is a crucial task for building parsers and understanding the formal properties of human language. A number of formal restrictions on crossing dependencies have been proposed, including bounds on gap degree, edge degree, and end-point crossings. Here we ask whether the empirical distribution of crossing dependencies in dependency treebanks offers evidence for these formal restrictions as true, independent constraints on dependency trees, or whether the distribution can be explained using other, more generic constraints affecting dependency trees. Speciﬁcally, we explore the null hypothesis that crossing dependencies are formally unrestricted, but occur at a low rate. We implement the null hypothesis using random trees where crossing dependencies occur at the same rate as in natural language trees, but without any formal restrictions. We ﬁnd that this baseline generally does not reproduce the same distribution of gap degree, edge degree, endpoint-crossing, and heads’ depth difference as real trees, suggesting that these formal constraints are a consequence of factors beyond the rate of crossing dependencies alone. 
This paper presents a syntactic treebank for spoken Naija, an English pidgincreole, which is rapidly spreading across Nigeria. The syntactic annotation is developed in the Surface-Syntactic Universal Dependency annotation scheme (SUD) (Gerdes et al., 2018) and automatically converted into UD. We present the workflow of the treebank development for this under-resourced language. A crucial step in the syntactic analysis of a spoken language consists in manually adding a markup onto the transcription, indicating the segmentation into major syntactic units and their internal structure. We show that this so-called “macrosyntactic” markup improves parsing results. We also study some iconic syntactic phenomena that clearly distinguish Naija from English. 
Language networks have been proposed to be the underlying representation for syntactic knowledge (Roelofs, 1992; Pickering and Branigan, 1998). Such networks are known to explain various word order related priming effects in psycholinguistics. Under the assumption that word order information is encoded in these networks, we explore if Greenbergian word order universals (Greenberg, 1963) can be induced from such networks. Language networks for 34 languages were constructed from the Universal Dependencies Treebank (Nivre et al., 2016) based on the assumptions in Roelofs (1992); Pickering and Branigan (1998). We conducted a series of experiments to investigate if certain network parameters can be used to cluster various languages based on the word order typology proposed by Greenberg. Our results show that some network parameters robustly cluster the languages correctly, thereby providing some support for language network as a valid representation for such linguistic generalizations. 
 We present an ongoing project of enriching an annotation of a parallel dependency treebank, namely the Prague Czech-English Dependency Treebank, with verb-centered semantic annotation using a bilingual synonym verb class lexicon, CzEngClass. This lexicon, in turn, links the predicate occurrences in the corpus to various external lexicons, such as FrameNet, VerbNet, PropBank frame files, OntoNotes, and WordNet. We briefly describe the content of the CzEngClass synonym class lexicon and then we focus on its use for an enrichment of corpus annotation, which proceeds in two steps - automatic preprocessing and manual correction. This paper describes a first milestone of a long-term project; so far, approx. 100 CzEngClass classes, containing about 1800 different verbs each for both Czech and English, are available for such annotation. The corpus coverage at the moment is about 50%, allowing us to extract some basic statistics and discover a set of issues that appeared during the annotation process. The ultimate goal is to have a high-coverage, multilingual verbal synonym lexicon and corpora with all events annotated by such lexicon, to serve both theoretical studies in lexical semantic, translatology, corpus annotation studies etc. as well as a usable resource for training automatic semantic text processing systems for event/participant detection and linking and for general information extraction.  
The data from a parallel annotated English–Czech corpus serve for testing the general issue of the variability of the mutual position of LOC and TWHEN in Czech and English (Sect. 4.1) and for the analysis of the relation between information structure and the given order in the two languages (Sect. 4.2). The most relevant and innovative results in the investigation, namely the cases where the position of TWHEN and LOC differs in Czech and English in that the same modification is placed in Topic in the sentence in one language and in Focus in the corresponding sentence in the other are presented in Sect. 4.3. 
This paper presents a novel algorithm for generating a surface word order for a sentence given its dependency tree using a two-stage process. Using dependency-based word embeddings and a Graph Neural Network, the algorithm ﬁrst learns how to rewrite a dependency tree as a partially ordered set (poset) with edge-weights representing dependency distance. The subsequent topological sort of this poset reﬂects a surface word order. The algorithm is evaluated against a naive baseline of average dependency distances across 14 languages, performing well in terms of rank correlation and resulting rate of projectivity based on Universal Dependencies corpora. 
In spite of the current availability of large collections of treebanks that can be used and queried from one common place on the web, we are still far from achieving a real interconnection, both between treebanks themselves and with other (kinds of) linguistic resources. However, making resources interoperable is a crucial requirement to maximize the contribution of each single resource, as well as to account for the linguistic complexity of the texts provided by (annotated) corpora and particularly by treebanks. This paper describes how dependency treebanks are interlinked in a Knowledge Base of linguistic resources for Latin based on Linked Open Data practices and standards. The Knowledge base is built to make linguistic resources interact by integrating all types of annotation applied to a particular word/text into a common representation. 
 This paper presents challenges and observations on creating a code-switching treebank based on ongoing annotation efforts of a Turkish–German spoken corpus following the Universal Dependencies annotation scheme. We present and discuss a number of issues that arise because of the need for consistent multilingual annotation within a single treebank, as well as the informal language which is where code-switching is observed most. Besides proposing solutions to these issues, our aim in this paper is to stimulate discussion and facilitate consistency over upcoming code-switching annotation projects.  
The development of code-mixing (CM) NLP systems has signiﬁcantly gained importance in recent times due to an upsurge in the usage of CM data by multilingual speakers. However, this proves to be a challenging task due to the complexities created by the presence of multiple languages together. The complexities get further compounded by the inconsistencies present in the raw data on social media and other platforms. In this paper, we present a neural stack based dependency parser for CM data of Bengali and English by utilizing pre-existing resources for closely related Hindi and English CM treebank as well as monolingual treebanks for Bengali, Hindi and English. To address the issue of scarcity of annotated resources for Bengali-English CM pair, we present a rule based system to computationally generate a synthetic code-mixing treebank for Bengali and English (Syn-BE) which is used to further improve the accuracy of our dependency parser. For evaluation purpose, we present a dataset of 500 Bengali-English tweets annotated under Universal Dependencies scheme. 
We introduce the ﬁrst German treebank for Twitter microtext, annotated within the framework of Universal Dependencies. The new treebank includes over 12,000 tokens from over 500 tweets, independently annotated by two human coders. In the paper, we describe the data selection and annotation process and present baseline parsing results for the new testsuite. 
This paper shows the extent to which treebanks of Ancient Greek play a central role in the ongoing Pedalion project at the University of Leuven. Building on diverse treebanks readily available today, the project aims to make progress in the automated parsing of classical and postclassical Greek texts. Rather than developing new technology as such, our project endeavours to make deliberate and methodical use of the technology that already exists, essentially by combining and adapting both technology and data. This contribution offers a ‘roadmap’ of our project, surveying (a) the existing work on which we can rely, (b) the strategies which we adopt to reach better results in the automated processing of Ancient Greek and (c) the deliverables that have already been realised or are forthcoming. 
 This paper describes the elaboration of a training corpus containing Hungarian sentences that are labelled according to a syntactic criterion, namely the syntactic role of a very common multifunctional word volt ’was/had’. The labels are assigned by a rule-based algorithm that speciﬁes the function of the target word based on the English pairs of the sentences extracted from a parallel corpus. The reasoning of this idea is that the required syntactic information is easier to retrieve in English than in Hungarian. The accuracy achieved by the algorithm was fair but still needs improvement in order to use the output as reliable training data. The obtained training corpus was tested with FastText’s text classiﬁer, the results of which showed that the targeted disambiguation problem is resolvable using neural network based text classiﬁcation.  
SUD is an annotation scheme for syntactic dependency treebanks, near isomorphic to UD (Universal Dependencies). Contrary to UD, it is based on syntactic criteria (favoring functional heads) and the relations are deﬁned on distributional and functional bases. In this paper, we will recall and specify the general principles underlying SUD, present the updated set of SUD relations, discuss the central question of MWEs, and introduce an orthogonal layer of deep-syntactic features converted from the deep-syntactic part of the UD scheme. 
We introduce a language-agnostic evolutionary technique for automatically extracting chunks from dependency treebanks. We evaluate these chunks on a number of morphosyntactic tasks, namely POS1 tagging, morphological feature tagging, and dependency parsing. We test the utility of these chunks in a host of different ways. We ﬁrst learn chunking as one task in a shared multitask framework together with POS and morphological feature tagging. The predictions from this network are then used as input to augment sequence-labelling dependency parsing. Finally, we investigate the impact chunks have on dependency parsing in a multi-task framework. Our results from these analyses show that these chunks improve performance at different levels of syntactic abstraction on English UD treebanks and a small, diverse subset of non-English UD treebanks. 
In order to automatically extend a treebank of Old French (9th-13th c.) with new texts in Old and Middle French (14th-15th c.), we need to adapt tools for syntactic annotation. However, these stages of French are subjected to great variation, and parsing historical texts remains an issue. We chose to adapt a symbolic system, the French Metagrammar (FRMG), and develop a lexicon comparable to the Lefff lexicon for Old and Middle French. The ﬁnal goal of our project is to model the evolution of language through the whole period of Medieval French (9th-15th c.). 
How is syntactic dependency structure reﬂected in the statistical distribution of words in corpora? Here we give empirical evidence and theoretical arguments for what we call the Head–Dependent Mutual Information (HDMI) Hypothesis: that syntactic heads and their dependents correspond to word pairs with especially high mutual information, an information-theoretic measure of strength of association. In support of this idea, we estimate mutual information between word pairs in dependencies based on an automatically-parsed corpus of 320 million tokens of English web text, ﬁnding that the mutual information between words in dependencies is robustly higher than a controlled baseline consisting of non-dependent word pairs. Next, we give a formal argument which derives the HDMI Hypothesis from a probabilistic interpretation of the postulates of dependency grammar. Our study also provides some useful empirical results about mutual information in corpora: we ﬁnd that maximum-likelihood estimates of mutual information between raw wordforms are biased even at our large sample size, and we ﬁnd that there is a general decay of mutual information between part-of-speech tags with distance. 
Reﬂexives are the source of ambiguity in many languages, including Czech. In this paper, we address Czech reﬂexives and their description in the dependency-oriented theory, Functional Generative Description. Our primary focus in this paper lies in the reﬂexives that form analogous syntactic structures as personal pronouns (e.g., Jan si / jí neveˇrˇí. ‘John does not believe in himself / in her.’). In Czech (similarly as in other Slavic languages), these reﬂexives encode reﬂexivity or reciprocity, two closely related phenomena. We offer an in-depth analysis of both these phenomena and propose their description in lexicon and in grammar. Further, we clarify principles underlying ambiguity of reﬂexive and reciprocal constructions. 
 The aim of this paper is to propose a dependency analysis of coordination of unlike grammatical functions, as witnessed in Slavic and some neighbouring languages (including Romanian, Hungarian and West Armenian). In order to increase the practical impact of the analysis, the proposed representations adhere to Universal Dependencies, a syntactic corpus annotation scheme, though arguments are given for validity of such representations from the theoretical linguistic perspective.  
This manuscript proposes a syntactic analysis of it-cleft sentences in English in dependency syntax. The connectivity effects of it-clefts are addressed in terms of the catena unit. A central claim is that despite the presence of two finite clauses, the matrix predicate of it-clefts, which is a catena, reaches into the embedded clause to include the primary predicate residing there. This means that despite the presence of two finite verbs, it-clefts are in fact mono-clausal in a central way. Given this essentially mono-clausal status of it-clefts, the widely discussed connectivity effects that appear in them are not surprising. 
 The Big Mess Construction (BMC) challenges standard assumptions about NP structure in English, e.g. so big a mess. Previous accounts of the BMC are couched in phrase structure syntax and most of them take the noun or determiner a to be the head of the phrase. In contrast, the current analysis of the BMC is couched in a dependency grammar that views the adjective as syntactic root/head of the BMC phrase. The fact that the BMC distributes as an NP, not as an AP, is due to the category changing ability of the degree adverb. This adverb evokes a change in status of its head word from adjective to noun-like category, similar to the manner in which the definite article the can cause a change in status of an adjective to a noun, e.g. the good, the credible, etc.  
The paper looks into cliticization of Serbian personal pronouns and auxiliary verbs. Cliticization is the operation whereby, in the process of clause construction, a clitic (= unstressed) form of a pronominal/verbal lexeme is chosen, rather than a full (= stressed) form. Cliticization of both pronouns and auxiliaries is obligatory under neutral communicative conditions (i.e., in the absence of contrast or emphasis) and unless specific syntactic/prosodic factors impose the choice of a full form. Under marked communicative conditions, cliticization is precluded. Corresponding rules are proposed within a Meaning-Text dependency framework. 
This paper investigates the evolution of the spatial rationales of Tesnière’s syntactic diagrams (stemma). I show that the conventions change from his ﬁrst attempts to model complete sentences up to the classical stemma he uses in his Elements of structural syntax (1959). From mostly symbolic representations of hierarchy (directed arrows from the dependent to the governor), he shifts to a more conﬁgurational one (connected dependents are placed below the governor). 
The paper presents the key tenets of a novel approach to the structure of Hungarian clauses that combines aspects of cognitive linguistics and dependency grammar. Clauses are given a multigraph description (as in XDG), with separate semantic graphs dedicated to frame semantic relations (S1), speech function (S2) and contextualization (S3). These stand in symbolic association with formal dimensions pertaining to morphology (F1), word order (F2) and prosody (F3). It is shown that the finite verb, or a catena of elements including the verb, is central for both S1 and S2, functioning as a ‘clause within the clause’. Further, the clause is shown to manifest modularity, whereby a single node in one dimension may correspond to a catena of interconnected elements in another. 
This paper highlights the advantages of not interpreting connections in a dependency tree as combinations between words but of interpreting them more broadly as sets of combinations between catenae. One of the most important outcomes is the possibility of associating a connection structure to any set of combinations assuming some well-formedness properties and of providing a new way to deﬁne dependency trees and other kinds of dependency structures, which are not trees but “bubble graphs”. The status of catenae of dependency trees as syntactic units is discussed. 
We propose a method of determining the syntactic difﬁculty of a sentence, using syntactic patterns that identify grammatical rules on dependency parses. We have constructed a novel query language based on constraint-based dependency grammars and a grammar of German rules (relevant to primary school education) with patterns in our language. We annotated these rules with a difﬁculty score and grammatical prerequisites and built a matching algorithm that matches the dependency parse of a sentence in CoNLL-U format with its relevant syntactic patterns. We achieved 96% precision and 95% recall on a manually annotated set of sentences, and our best results on using parses from four parsers are 88% and 84% respectively. 
To develop a parser for a language with no syntactically annotated data, we either have to develop a (small) treebank for the target language or rely on cross-lingual learning or projection, or possibly use some combination of these methods. In this paper, we compare the usefulness of cross-lingual model transfer and target language annotation for three different languages, with varying support from closely related high-resource languages. The results show that annotating even a very small amount of data in the target language is superior to any cross-lingual setup and that accuracy can be further improved by adding training data from related languages in a multilingual model. 
This paper presents the preliminary results of a multifactorial analysis of word order in Mbyá Guaraní, a Tupí-Guaraní language spoken in Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, based on a corpus of written narratives with multiple layers of annotation. Our goals are to assess the validity of previous claims about Mbyá word order (Martins, 2003; Dooley, 1982; Dooley, 2015), and to explore the effects of different types of factors on the position of core arguments relative to their verb. We show that SV and VO are the most frequently attested orders in matrix clauses and that subordinate clauses favour the OV order. Givenness, transitivity and clause type (root vs subordinate) are found to be signiﬁcant predictors of word order. We identify differences in object position between Mbyá and Paraguayan Guaraní (Tonhauser and Colijn, 2010), and we argue that these differences support Dietrich (2009)’s proposal that Tupí-Guaraní languages are undergoing a change in word order from OV to VO, induced by contact with Spanish and Portuguese. 
 The purpose of this study is to examine methods of measuring syntactic complexity by analyzing an original corpus of written Japanese data from native speakers and learners of Japanese. We compared two measures, mean dependency distance (MDD) and mean hierarchical distance (MHD), which have been examined using in English in previous studies. Our research question is to compare the two methods and evaluate them in order to develop an index for measuring Japanese learner's syntactic complexity.  
Dependency parsing as sequence labeling has recently proved to be a relevant alternative to the traditional transition- and graph-based approaches. It offers a good trade-off between parsing accuracy and speed. However, recent work on dependency parsing as sequence labeling ignore the pre-processing time of Part-of-Speech tagging – which is required for this task – in the evaluation of speed while other studies showed that Part-of-Speech tags are not essential to achieve state-ofthe-art parsing scores. In this paper, we compare the accuracy and speed of shared and stacked multi-task learning strategies – as well as a strategy that combines both – to learn Part-of-Speech tagging and dependency parsing in a single sequence labeling pipeline. In addition, we propose an alternative encoding of the dependencies as labels which does not use Part-of-Speech tags and improves dependency parsing accuracy for most of the languages we evaluate. 
Many linguistic theories and annotation frameworks contain a deep-syntactic and/or semantic layer. While many of these frameworks have been applied to more than one language, none of them is anywhere near the number of languages that are covered in Universal Dependencies (UD). In this paper, we present a prototype of Deep Universal Dependencies, a two-speed concept where minimal deep annotation can be derived automatically from surface UD trees, while richer annotation can be added for datasets where appropriate resources are available. We release the Deep UD data in Lindat. 
The data of the Prague Czech-English Dependency Treebank (a member of the family of Prague Dependency Treebanks) have served as a basis for the comparative study of delimiting adverbial meanings of the local relation “within the given place”. The Czech prepositional groups containing the prepositions v, na, and u with the above meaning are compared with their English equivalents, using a more subtle differentiation into three semantic subgroups of "inside", "on the surface" and "at the given place". Our analysis confirms that though every language structures the reality in a different way, certain tendencies may be observed in the relation of the forms and their functions that eventually result in a more detailed classification. The contribution presents results of an ongoing work. 
We present a new e-dictionary of Spanish (in progress) called Diretes (DIccionario RETicular de ESpañol). It contains descriptions of collocations by means of Lexical Functions (LFs), both standard and non-standard, in the sense of the Meaning – Text Theory by Igor Mel’čuk. At present, Diretes contains about 50,000 collocations. This paper concentrates on the collocations in which the collocate is an adjectival or an adverbial phrase. These collocations are mostly extracted from the Práctico combinatorial dictionary of modern Spanish. We explain the structure of the e-dictionary, the types of information it contains and the way it is presented. We also show how the LF-interpreted collocations can be used in NLP applications. We demonstrate it with the SemETAP semantic analyzer, in which LFs are used to normalize semantic structures and make inferences. 
 The goal of this paper is to provide a description of the syntax of exceptive constructions within a dependency framework. These constructions are introduced in English by the markers except, but, except for, apart from, other than, etc. Examining their syntactic properties across a variety of languages shows that they imply two main types of constructions: The paradigmatic-EC and the hypotactic-EC. The first type shares many properties with coordination, and it can be integrated into the paradigmatic lists/piles phenomena in which two segments of the utterance pile up on the same syntactic position and whose most famous case is coordination.  
The paper aims at studying the evolution of syntactic valency of Chinese verbs. We construct three corpora of ancient classical Chinese ， ancient vernacular Chinese and modern vernacular Chinese. From these corpora, ten main verbs are selected to probe into the evolution of their valency, namely, their complements and adjuncts. The paper reveals that the syntactic structures has a trend toward complex. The ancient classical Chinese and the ancient vernacular Chinese are similar in sentence structure. With the transformation from the ancient vernacular to the modern vernacular, syntactic complexity increases dramatically, indicating drastic changes in sentence structure. 1. Introduction Valency is a property of words (Tesnière, 1959). It refers to the ability of words to syntactically or semantically to combine with other words (Liu, 2007). It is determined by the meaning of the word itself. The valency relations realized in sentences are dependence relationships between words (Liu, 2009). Quantitative investigations into valency may reveal some syntactic and semantic features of human language. Based on the German valency dictionary, Köhler studies some quantitative characteristics of the German verbs valency (Köhler, 2000; 2005; 2007). Čech et al. (2010) studied Czech valency framework distribution and verified the hypothesis about the relationship between the number of valency frames and the word length. And they proposed the concept of "full valency" without distinguishing between complements and declaratives. Liu(2011) conducted quantitative studies into English verb valency and concludes that the number of meanings of English verbs obeys the positive negative binomial distributions -- the more meanings a word has, the bigger the valency is. However, most of these studies focus on the synchronic description of the word valency. but ignore the diachronic changes of word valency. Meanwhile, the description and study of the valencys in a corpora are not balanced in every historical period and there is a lack of 
 Lexical preferences encoded as association metrics have been shown to improve performance on structural ambiguities that are still challenging for modern parsers. This paper introduces a mechanism to include lexical preferences into a neural transition-based dependency parser for German. We compare pointwise mutual information (PMI) and embedding-based scores. Both the PMI-based model and the embedding-based model outperform the baseline signiﬁcantly. The best model is PMI-based and increases overall performance by 0.26 LAS points over the baseline.  
We present in this paper a list of dependency relations based on Pāṇini’s grammar for Sanskrit. The important feature of this list is that most of the relations represent well defined semantics that can be extracted from the surface string without any extra-linguistic information. 
Experiments have been conducted in which the subjects incrementally constructed dependency trees of Russian sentences. The subject was successively presented with growing initial segments of a sentence, and had to draw syntactic links between the last word of the segment and the previous words. The subject was also shown a limited right context – a fixed number of words following the last word of the segment. The results of the experiments show that the right context of 1 or 2 words is sufficient for confident incremental parsing of Russian narrative sentences. 
This paper presents a new schema to annotate Chinese Treebanks on the character level. The original Universal Dependencies (UD) and Surface-Syntactic Universal Dependencies (SUD) projects provide token-level resources with rich morphosyntactic language details. However, without any commonly accepted word definition for Chinese, the dependency parsing always faces the dilemma of word segmentation. Therefore we present a character-level annotation schema integrated into the existing Universal Dependencies schema as an extension. 
This tutorial will provide an in-depth look at the experiments, jointly carried out by KantanMT and eBay during 2018, to determine which Neural Model delivers the best translation performance for eBay Customer Service content. It will lay out the timeline, process and mechanisms used to customise Neural MT models and how these were used in conjunction with Human Based evaluations to determine which approach to Neural MT provided the best translation outcomes.The tutorial will cover the following topics and methods:- Structural differences in Neural Networks and how they assist the language decoding process {--} RNN, CNN and TNN will be covered in detailed.- Customisation of Neural MT using the KantanMT Platform- Using MQM Framework for the evaluation and comparison of Translation Outputs and comparison to Human Translation- Collation and analysis of experimental findings in reaching our decision to standardise on Transformer type networks.Participants of the tutorial will get a clear understanding of Neural Model types and the differences, it will also cover how to customise these models and then how to set up a controlled experiment to determine translation performance.
Most of the test sets used for the evaluation of MT systems reflect the frequency distribution of different phenomena found in naturally occurring data ({''}standard{''} or {''}natural{''} test sets). However, to better understand particular strengths and weaknesses of MT systems, especially those based on neural networks, it is necessary to apply more focused evaluation procedures. Therefore, another type of test sets ({''}challenge{''} test sets, also called {''}test suites{''}) is being increasingly employed in order to highlight points of difficulty which are relevant to model development, training, or using of the given system. This tutorial will be useful for anyone (researchers, developers, users, translators) interested in detailed evaluation and getting a better understanding of machine translation (MT) systems and models. The attendees will learn about the motivation and linguistic background of challenge test sets and a range of testing possibilities applied to the state-of-the-art MT systems, as well as a number of practical aspects and challenges.
In the last couple of years, machine translation technology has seen major changes with the breakthrough of neural machine translation (NMT), a growing number of providers and translation platforms. Machine Translation generally is experiencing a peak in demand from translation buyers, thanks to Machine Learning and AI being omnipresent in the media and at industry events. At the same time, new models for defining translation quality are becoming more widely adopted. These changes have profound implications for translators, LSPs and translation buyers: translators have to adjust their post-editing approaches, while LSPs and translation buyers are faced with decisions on selecting providers, best approaches for updating MT systems, financial investments, integrating tools, and getting the timing for implementation right for an optimum ROI.In this tutorial on MT and post-editing we would like to continue sharing the latest trends in the field of MT technologies, and discuss their impact on post-editing practices as well as integrating MT on large, multi-language translation programs. We will look at tool compatibility, different use cases of MT and dynamic quality models, and share our experience of measuring performance.
The tutorial will introduce a set of very useful statistical tests for conducting analyses in the research areas of Machine Translation (MT) and Translation Studies (TS). For each statistical test, the presenter will: 1) introduce it in the context of a common research example that pertains to the area of MT and/or TS 2) explain the technique behind the test and its assumptions 3) cover common pitfalls when the test is applied in research studies, and 4) conduct a hands-on activity so that attendees can put the knowledge acquired in practice straight-away. All examples and exercises will be in R. The following statistical tests will be covered: t-tests (both parametric and non-parametric), bootstrap resampling, Pearson and Spearman correlation coefficients, linear mixed-effects models.
In this paper we describe a sentence generator for Sanskrit. Pāṇini’s grammar provides the essential grammatical rules to generate a sentence from its meaning structure. The meaning structure is an abstract representation of the verbal import. It is the intermediate representation from which, using Pāṇini’s rules, without appealing to the world knowledge, the desired sentence can be generated. At the same time, this meaning structure also represents the dependency parse of the generated sentence. Keywords: Sanskrit, Sentence Generator, Pāṇini, Paninian Grammar, Computational Linguistics. 
Sentence parser is an essential component in the mechanical analysis of natural language texts. Building a parser for Sanskrit text is a challenging task because of its free word order and the dominance of verse style in Sanskrit literature in comparison to prose style. In this paper, we describe our efforts to build a parser which parses both prose as well as verse texts. It employs an Edge-Centric Binary Join method using various constraints following traditional rules of verbal cognition. We also propose a Daṇḍa-anvaya-janaka which converts the parsed verse form to its canonical prose order. 
We propose an automated approach for semantic class identiﬁcation of compounds in Sanskrit. It is essential to extract semantic information hidden in compounds for improving overall downstream Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications such as information extraction, question answering, machine translation, and many more. In this work, we systematically investigate the following research question: Can recent advances in neural network outperform traditional hand engineered feature based methods on the semantic level multi-class compound classiﬁcation task for Sanskrit? Contrary to the previous methods, our method does not require feature engineering. For well-organized analysis, we categorize neural systems based on Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), Convolution Neural Network (CNN) and Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) architecture and feed input to the system from one of the possible levels, namely, word level, sub-word level, and character level. Our best system with LSTM architecture and FastText embedding with end-to-end training has shown promising results in terms of F-score (0.73) compared to the state of the art method based on feature engineering (0.74) and outperformed in terms of accuracy (77.68%). 
In this paper, we propose a classification framework for finding the compound words from a given Sanskrit text. The compound word identification plays a significant role in learning the elucidations of verses in Ayurveda text books which are written in Sanskrit. This process was modelled using several classification algorithms and we examined their efficacy with varying word embedding dimensions. Sanskrit words were vectorized using fastText word embedding method. The results show that the performance of K-Nearest Neighbor is better than other classifiers and the prediction accuracy is 90.38%. 
 Sanskrit texts in epistemology, metaphysics, and logic (i.e., pramāṇa texts) remain underrepresented in computational work. To begin to remedy this, a 3.5 million-token digital corpus has been prepared for document- and word-level analysis, and its potential demonstrated through Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) topic modeling. Attention is also given to data consistency issues, with special reference to the SARIT corpus.  
Indic heritage knowledge is embedded in millions of manuscripts at various stages of digitization and analysis. Numerous powerful tools and techniques have been developed for linguistic analysis of Samskrit and Indic language texts. However, the key challenge today is employing them together on large document collections and building higher level end-user applications to make Indic knowledge texts intelligible. We believe the chief hurdle is the lack of an end-to-end, secure, decentralized system platform for (i) composing independently developed tools for higher-level tasks, and (ii) employing human experts in the loop to work around the limitations of automated tools to ensure curated content always. Such a platform must define protocols and standards for interoperability and reusability of tools while enabling their autonomous evolution to spur innovation. This paper describes the architecture of an Internet platform for end-to-end Indic knowledge processing called Vedavaapi that addresses these challenges effectively. At its core, Vedavaapi is a community-sourced, scalable, multi-layered annotated object network. It serves as an overlay on Indic documents stored anywhere online by providing textification, language analysis and discourse analysis as value-added services in a crowd-sourced manner. It offers federated deployment of tools as microservices, powerful decentralized user / team management with access control across multiple organizational boundaries. social-media login and an open architecture with extensible and evolving object schemas. As its first application, we have developed human-assisted text conversion of hand-written manuscripts such as palm leaf etc leveraging several standards-based open-source tools including ones by IIIT Hyderabad, IIT Kanpur and University of Hyderabad. We demonstrate how our design choices enabled us to rapidly develop useful applications via extensive reuse of state-of-the-art analysis tools. This paper offers an approach to standardization of linguistic analysis output, and lays out guidelines for Indic document metadata design and storage. 
Many Sanskrit texts are available today in machine-readable form. They are of considerable help to philologists, but their exploitation is made difficult by peculiarities of the language which prevent the use of traditional information retrieval systems. We discuss a few possible solutions to improve this situation and present as well a number of strategies to increase retrieval efficiency. 
Sanskrit (saṃskṛta) enjoys one of the largest and most varied literature in the whole world. Extracting the knowledge from it, however, is a challenging task due to multiple reasons including complexity of the language and paucity of standard natural language processing tools. In this paper, we target the problem of building knowledge graphs for particular types of relationships from saṃskṛta texts. We build a natural language question-answering system in saṃskṛta that uses the knowledge graph to answer factoid questions. We design a framework for the overall system and implement two separate instances of the system on human relationships from mahābhārata and rāmāyaṇa, and one instance on synonymous relationships from bhāvaprakāśa nighaṇṭu, a technical text from āyurveda. We show that about 50% of the factoid questions can be answered correctly by the system. More importantly, we analyse the shortcomings of the system in detail for each step, and discuss the possible ways forward. 
This paper introduces a digital tool, viz., Sanskrit Shabdamitra, for learning and teaching of Sanskrit in active classroom environment as well as in other formal and informal setup. It is based on an existing digital resource called Sanskrit Wordnet created at IIT Bombay. Thus, this paper also describes a direct application of Sanskrit Wordnet in particular, and Wordnet in general in the education domain. It describes the structure and various features of Sanskrit Shabdamitra. 
A kośa (lexicon) is a literary work that provides a comprehensive understanding of words by arranging them along with their synonyms and other words that are semantically related. Its format has been designed to include not just ontological classification, but to give a holistic idea of a concept represented by the word. This allows a thorough understanding of the words, and also the knowledge they embody. Vaijayantīkośa is a popular Sanskrit lexicon that contains words from spoken language as well those used in Vedic literature. To facilitate dissemination of this knowledge, a web-based tool, Vaijayantīkośa Knowledge Net, is created for easy access and analysis of the words in the kośa. The objective of the tool is to provide information to researchers from different fields of study to explore the knowledge contained in the kośa with the help of synsets and ontological structure. Key words: Vaijayantīkośa, Synset, Ontology, KnowledgeNet, Semantic relations 
Tracing the root of a text i.e., the original version of the text, by inferring phylogenetic trees has been a topic of interest in philological studies. However, existing methods face meaning conflation deficiency due to the usage of lexical similarity based measures which feed the distance matrix to clustering algorithms. In this paper, we utilize word embeddings as features to compute the distances among manuscripts. We conduct this pilot study on using word embeddings to compute inter-manuscript distances and provide an effective distance matrix to infer phylogenetic trees. We conduct experiments on the historical Sanskrit text known as Kāśikāvrtti (KV) and infer phylogenetic trees using this approach. For comparison, we also develop baseline methods using lexical distance-based measures to infer phylogenetic trees for KV. We show that our methodology produces better trees which club closely related manuscripts together compared to the baseline methods. 
This paper describes a digital tool called the Textual History Tool in detail. This tool captures the historical evolution of a text through various temporal stages, and interrelated data culled from various types of related texts. This tool also provides a historical view of the transmission of a text through the manuscript tradition. This tool provides an online interface which allows philologists to enter manuscript data for a text. It also provides an online interface which helps philologists compare the variants in a separate mode. It allows the user to generate phylogenetic trees, for the text, based on distance methods using the data entered in the tool. It also contains the facility to generate critical edition using a semi-supervised approach. This tool also divides the text into meaningful functional units and helps achieve a better comparison among the manuscripts. The text of the KV and its textual history is mentioned as a specific example to demostrate the features of this tool. 
For any Indian language, the accuracy of the morphological analyser, depends on the pre-edition of the input text. In Pāli language, like any other Indian language, the combination of words like sandhis and samāsas are frequently seen. This poses difficulty in the proper analysis of the source text. It is essential to have computational tools that help to split the words, useful in the analysis of the text. This paper discusses complexities involved in creating a computational grammar for sandhi tool in Pāli language. 
Social bots are autonomous entities that generate a signiﬁcant amount of social media content. The content being created can be harmless or even contain beneﬁcial information. On the other hand, it may target a certain audience to inﬂuence opinions, often politically motivated, or to promote individuals to appear more popular than they really are. In this work we present a simple method for bot detection on Twitter platform relying on user activity ﬁngerprint, complemented with a set of well-known statistical diversity measures. We demonstrate the beneﬁts of the method on two datasets used in a couple of previous studies by various researchers. 
The IndoWordNet is an Indian language lexical resource. The project started with Hindi WordNet, which was manually built from various resources with the preference for culturespeciﬁc synsets. Other languages were added later. The development approach used in IndoWordNet is very similar to that used in Princeton WordNet (PWN). PWN is a semantic network where English synsets are nodes, and semantic relations are edges connecting them. Due to the popularity of PWN, IndoWordNet also connected Hindi and English languages through direct (synonymy) and hypernymy linkages between their synsets. Due to the diversity of the languages, these linkages generate three types of mappings between IndoWordNet and PWN which generate the misalignment. This paper proposes to align the IndoWordNet with PWN using a large scale lexical-semantic resource called Universal Knowledge Core (UKC), which forms a semantic network where nodes are languageindependent concepts. In the UKC semantic relations connect concepts and not synsets. 
Phonemic Verbal Fluency (PVF) is a cognitive assessment task where a patient is asked to produce words constrained to a given alphabetical letter for a speciﬁed time duration. Patient productions are later evaluated based on strategies to reveal crucial diagnostic information by manually scoring results according to predetermined clinical criteria. In this paper, we propose four alternative similarity metrics and evaluate them in a two-fold argument, using the clinical criteria as a baseline. First, we consider the capacity of each metric to model PVF production using a rank-based approach, and then consider the metrics ability to compute ﬁner resolution clinical measures that are indicative of the underlying strategy. Automation of the clinical criteria and proposed metrics are evaluated on PVF performances for 16 letters from 32 healthy German students (n=512). Weighted phonemic edit distance performed best overall for modelling both production and strategy. 
In this article we propose a novel method for automatically extracting and classifying argument components from raw texts. We introduce a multi-task deep learning framework exploiting weight parameters trained on auxiliary simple tasks, such as Part-Of-Speech tagging or chunking, in order to solve more complex tasks that require a ﬁne-grained understanding of natural language. Interestingly, our results show that the use of advanced deep learning techniques framed in a multi-task setting enables competing with state-of-the-art systems that depend on handcrafted features. 
Distributed word embeddings have yielded state-of-the-art performance in many NLP tasks, mainly due to their success in capturing useful semantic information. These representations assign only a single vector to each word whereas a large number of words are polysemous (i.e., have multiple meanings). In this work, we approach this critical problem in lexical semantics, namely that of representing various senses of polysemous words in vector spaces. We propose a topic modeling based skip-gram approach for learning multiprototype word embeddings. We also introduce a method to prune the embeddings determined by the probabilistic representation of the word in each topic. We use our embeddings to show that they can capture the context and word similarity strongly and outperform various state-of-the-art implementations. 
The unprecedented growth in the amount of online information available in many languages to users and businesses, including news articles and social media, has made it difﬁcult and time consuming for users to identify and consume sought after content. Hence, automatic text summarization for various languages to generate accurate and relevant summaries from the huge amount of information available is essential nowadays. Techniques and methodologies for automatic Arabic text summarization are still immature due to the inherent complexity of the Arabic language in terms of both structure and morphology. This work attempts to improve the performance of Arabic text summarization. We propose a new Arabic text summarization approach based on a new noun extraction method and fuzzy logic. The proposed summarizer is evaluated using EASC corpus and benchmarked against popular state of the art Arabic text summarization systems. The results indicate that our proposed Fuzzy logic approach with noun extraction outperforms existing systems. 
In this paper, we suggest the generalization of an Arabic Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) system in a multi-domain humanmachine dialog. We are interested particularly in domain portability of SLU system related to both structured (DBMS) and unstructured data (Information Extraction), related to four domains. In this work, we used the thematic approach for four domains which are School Management, Medical Diagnostics, Consultation domain and Question-Answering domain (DAWQAS). We should note that two kinds of classiﬁers are used in our experiments: statistical and neural, namely: Gaussian Naive Bayes, Bernoulli Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, SGD, Passive Aggressive Classiﬁer, Perceptron, Linear Support Vector and Convolutional Neural Network. 
In this paper, we present ArPod, a new Arabic speech corpus made of Arabic audio podcasts. We built this dataset, mainly for both speech-based multi-lingual and multi-dialectal identiﬁcation tasks. It includes two languages: Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and English, and four Arabic dialects: Saudi, Egyptian, Lebanese and Syrian. A set of supervised classiﬁers have been used: Support Vector Machines (SVM), Multi Layer Perceptron (MLP), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Extratrees and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), using acoustic and spectral features. For both tasks, SVM yielded encouraging results and outperformed the other classiﬁers. Language Identiﬁcation, Dialect Identiﬁcation, CNN, Acoustic features, spectral features, SVM, Arabic Podcast 
Automatic document categorization gains more importance in view of the plethora of textual documents added constantly on the web. Text categorization or classiﬁcation is the process of automatically tagging a textual document with most relevant label. Text categorization for Arabic language become more challenging in the absence of large and free datasets. We propose new, rich and unbiased dataset for the single-label (SANAD) text classiﬁcation, which is made freely available to the research community on Arabic computational linguistics. In contrast to the majority of the available categorization systems of Arabic text, we offer several deep learning classiﬁers. With deep learning, we eliminate the heavy pre-processing phase usually used to on the data. Our experimental results showed solid performance on SANAD corpus with a minimum accuracy of 93.43%, achieved by CGRU, and top performance of 95.81%, achieved by HANGRU. In pursuit of superior performance, we implemented an ensemble model to combine best deep learning models together in a majority-voting paradigm. 
This paper discusses a method to derive a meaningful conﬁdence score for a speech segment at the phoneme level, using a frame classiﬁer. Multiple functions, which capture various aspects of the frame classiﬁer output, are ﬁrst introduced. The ability of these functions to discriminate between different phonemes is shown. A probabilistic approach is formulated to combine the functions to get a meaningful conﬁdence score, which reﬂects the precision of the predicted phoneme chunk. Relevant real-world datasets are used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed conﬁdence scoring mechanism. 
In this paper we describe a corpus annotation project based on crowdsourcing technique that performs orthographic transcription of KALAM’DZ corpus (Bougrine et al., 2017c). This latter is a speech corpus dedicated to Arabic Algerian dialectal varieties. The recourse to crowdsourcing solution is deployed to avoid time and cost consuming solutions that involves experts. Since Arabic dialects have no standard orthographic, we have ﬁxed some guidelines that helps crowd to get more normalized transcriptions. We have performed experiments on a sample of 10% of KALAM’DZ corpus, totaling 8.75 hours. The quality control of the output transcription is ensured within three stages: Pre-qualiﬁcation of crowd, online ﬁltering and in lab validation and revision. A baseline resource is used to evaluate both ﬁrst stages. It consists on 5% of the targeted dataset transcribed by well trained transcribers. Our results conﬁrm that the crowdsourcing solution is an effective approach for speech dialect transcription when we deal with under-resourced dialects. Before the validation of the well trained transcribers the accuracy of transcriptions reached 74.38. In addition, we present a set of best practices for crowdsourcing speech corpus transcription. 
Authorship Verification aims at identifying whether a document of questionable authorship is created by a specific author, given a number of documents known to have been written by that author. This type of authorship analysis uses feature engineering of feature sets extracted from large documents. Given the nonlinear morphology and flexible syntax of Arabic, feature extraction in large Arabic texts requires complex preprocessing. The requirement of large training and testing documents is also impractical for domains where large documents are available in print, given the scarcity of reliable Arabic OCR. This problem is approached by investigating the effectiveness of using an author profiling-based approach on a small set of shorter documents. The findings show that it is possible to outperform the state-of-the-art authorship verification method by using a small set of training documents. It is also found that an increase in the size of the training or testing corpus does not correlate with improving the accuracy of the authorship verification method. 
Automatic assessment of word similarity has long been considered as one important challenge in the development of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. People often have a big disagreement on how similar a pair of words is. Yet most word similarity prediction methods, taking either the knowledge-based approach or the corpus-based approach, only attempt to estimate an average score of human raters. The distribution aspect of similarity for each wordpair has been methodologically neglected, thus limiting their downstream applications in Natural Language Processing. Here, utilizing the category information of Wikipedia, we present a method to model similarity between two words as a probability distribution. Our method leverages unique features of folksonomy. The success of our method in describing the diversity of human perception on word similarity is evaluated against the rater dataset WordSim-353. Our method can be extended to compare documents. 
The automatic generation of Arabic lexical recognition tests entails several NLP challenges, including corpus linguistics, automatic diacritization, lemmatization and language modeling. Here, we only address the problem of automatic diacritization, a step that paves the road for the automatic generation of Arabic LRTs. We conduct a comparative study between the available tools for diacritization (Farasa and Madamira) and a strong baseline. We evaluate the error rates for these systems using a set of publicly available (almost) fully diacritized corpora, but in a relaxed evaluation mode to ensure fair comparison. Farasa outperforms Madamira and the baseline under all conditions. 
This paper introduces our preliminary work in dictionary expansion by adding English and Chinese Wikipedia titles along with their linguistic features. Parts-of-speech of Chinese titles are determined by the majority of heads of their Wikipedia categories. Proper noun detection in English Wikipedia is done by checking the capitalization of the titles in the content of the articles. Title alternatives will be detected beforehand. Chinese proper noun detection is done via interlanguage links and POS. The estimated accuracy of POS determination is 71.67% and the accuracy of proper noun detection is about 83.32%. Keywords—dictionary expansion, proper nouns, parts-of-speech, Wikipedia 
Previous research has documented variability in speech production by speakers with CI. With reference to stop production, VOT duration has been reported to differ for children with Cochlear Implants (CI) and normal hearing (NH) in different languages. As the voicing contrast differs across languages, it is important to examine VOT production in the speech of individuals with CI in different languages. The Greek stop consonant inventory consists of voiceless unaspirated stops and prevoiced stops at the bilabial, dental and velar places of articulation. In this study, VOT duration is examined for voiceless and voiced word initial stops in the context of the vowel /a/ produced by 24 Greekspeaking children with CI and 24 agematched children with NH. Results showed a tendency for longer VOT duration for the voiceless stops produced by the children with NH than with CI and longer prevoicing for the children with CI compared to their NH peers. 
The increase in number and volume of electronic documents makes the development of applications such as text summarization crucial, in order to facilitate the task for persons who want to consult their documents. The purpose of an electronic document summary is the same as that of a book abstract; it informs the reader about the subject matter. The usefulness of the summary is distinguished by the limited time devoted to its reading to synthesize all the ideas that the author wants to spend. The objective of this paper is to present our SumSAT tool, which is an Arabic text summarization system, adopting an extraction approach. The originality of our work lies in the use of a hybrid methodology that combines three methods: contextual exploration, indicative expression, and graph method. The proposed strategy is evaluated by comparing the obtained results with human summaries using recall and precision metrics. 
With the evolution of network communication technology and advances in multimedia application, speech or data networks over an IP connection are vulnerable to threats. Therefore, the need to protect data attracts many researches on safe communications, especially speech secure communication. Additionally, with the large volume of unprotected speech data transmitted over the internet, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) packets could be lost, and they cannot be recovered back, which would result in a degradation of speech quality. In this paper, we propose a secure speech communication approach based on chaotic cryptography combined with G.722.2 error recovery technique performed by interleaving. On the one hand, this approach uses the interleaving technique on inter-frames of G.722.2 speech in order to make a continuous packet loss becoming an isolated packets loss. On the other hand, speech will be encrypted using chaotic Lorenz system which achieves high encryption efficiency. To evaluate performance, the proposed design was evaluated through Enhanced Modified Bark Spectral Distortion (EMBSD) and Mean Opinion Score (MOS) with different packet loss rates to confirm the efficiency of our proposed scheme. 
Semantic parsing is the process of translating natural language utterances into logical forms, which has many important applications such as question answering and instruction following. Sequence-to-sequence models have been very successful across many NLP tasks. However, a lack of task-speciﬁc prior knowledge can be detrimental to the performance of these models. Prior work has used frameworks for inducing grammars over the training examples, which capture conditional independence properties that the model can leverage. Inspired by the recent success stories such as BERT we set out to extend this augmentation framework into two stages. The ﬁrst stage is to pre-train using a corpus of augmented examples in an unsupervised manner. The second stage is to ﬁne-tune to a domain-speciﬁc task. In addition, since the pre-training stage is separate from the training on the main task we also expand the universe of possible augmentations without causing catastrophic forgetting. We also propose a novel data augmentation strategy that interchanges tokens that co-occur in similar contexts to produce new training pairs. We demonstrate that the proposed two-stage framework is beneﬁcial for improving the parsing accuracy in a standard dataset called GeoQuery for the task of generating logical forms from a set of questions about the US geography. 
Modern text summarizers are big neural networks (recurrent, convolutional, or transformers) trained end-to-end under an encoderdecoder framework. These networks equipped with an attention mechanism, that maintains a memory of their source hidden states, are able to generalize well to long text sequences. In this paper, we explore how the different modules involved in an encoder-decoder structure affect the produced summary quality as measured by ROUGE score in the widely used CNN/Daily Mail and Gigaword summarization datasets. We ﬁnd that encoding the position of the text tokens before feeding them to a recurrent text summarizer gives a signiﬁcant, in terms of ROUGE, gain to its performance on the former but not the latter dataset. 
Neural Machine Translation has shown promising performance in literary texts. Since literary machine translation has not yet been researched for the English-toSlovene translation direction, this paper aims to fulfill this gap by presenting a comparison among bespoke NMT models, tailored to novels, and Google Neural Machine Translation. The translation models were evaluated by the BLEU and METEOR metrics, assessment of fluency and adequacy, and measurement of the postediting effort. The findings show that all evaluated approaches resulted in an increase in translation productivity. The translation model tailored to a specific author outperformed the model trained on a more diverse literary corpus, based on all metrics except the scores for fluency. However, the translation model by Google still outperforms all bespoke models. The evaluation reveals a very low inter-rater agreement on fluency and adequacy, based on the kappa coefficient values, and significant discrepancies between posteditors. This suggests that these methods might not be reliable, which should be addressed in future studies. 
In this paper, we adapt state-of-the-art neural machine translation (NMT) systems to literary content and use them to translate ﬁction stories from English to Russian and from German to English. We show that such adapted systems have richer vocabulary and lead to improved automatic evaluation metrics on literary prose as compared to general domain NMT systems, including Google’s online MT. We propose a new error classiﬁcation scheme for NMT output that is speciﬁcally tailored to literary translation and let a bilingual evaluator analyze translated excerpts from two ﬁction stories. The results show that up to 30% of machine-translated sentences have acceptable quality. We observe very few severe syntactic errors even on complex sentences, but the meaning errors for ambiguous words are still numerous. A separate classiﬁcation of consistency, pronoun resolution, and tone/register error types reveals a high potential of MT quality improvement by considering the context of previous sentences or even the whole story. A preliminary experiment aimed at reducing pronoun translation errors conﬁrms this potential. 
In this paper I describe how I used Intergaelic, an ad-hoc hybrid machine translation (MT) system, to pre-translate a novel and subsequently post-edit the resulting MT output.1 One of the central themes in the novel is the increasingly central role of technology in society. Thus this experiment can be viewed as a metatextual translation, whereby translation is aided by one of the themes present in the material being translated. I examine whether the translation provided by the MT system reached a basic standard that would reduce overall time for translation, and by how much. I examine the process of post-editing (PE) and how it differs from translation from scratch. I compare text generated by Intergaelic with that generated by widely available MT systems. I examine areas of weakness in this use of Intergaelic. I explore what elements remain the reserve of the human translator. I describe translating the entire novel using this method and how the author and publishers responded to the process of translation. I examine possible criticisms of this  approach and the future of MT and PE in literary translation. 
The increasing number of retranslations and wider availability of their texts on the Internet is expected to create a positive impact on MT systems by producing more matches. Yet, we argue that retranslations conducted using MT would differ from those completed without any recourse to MT in terms of creative solutions. This paper aims to discuss the possible effects of MT on retranslation of literary texts with a focus on creativity. 21 fourth-year T&I students translated two excerpts from Robinson Crusoe into Turkish, one with, and one without the help of an online MT service. We included the analysis of four different translations of the same text available on the market, in terms of creativity. Analysis of solutions produced for 252 translation units suggests that the use of MT is likely to hinder creativity for novice translators for English-Turkish language pair. 
This paper argues that an essential element affecting literary translation – the structure of narrative discourse – has been overlooked in research on literary MT systems so far. After a brief survey of basic concepts of structuralist narratology (Genette 1972), which are necessary for understanding essential aspects of literary translation, a type of reported speech called free indirect discourse is taken as an example of the translation problems which successful literary MT systems would have to tackle. 
We report on a case study in which we assess the quality of Google’s Neural Machine Translation system on the translation of Agatha Christie’s novel The Mysterious Affair at Styles into Dutch. We annotated and classiﬁed all MT errors in the ﬁrst chapter of the novel making use of the SCATE error taxonomy, which differentiates between ﬂuency (well-formedness of the target language) and accuracy errors (correct transfer of source content). We modiﬁed the SCATE MT error taxonomy to be able to annotate text-level phenomena such as textual coherence (e.g. anaphora and coreference) and textual cohesion (e.g. lexical consistency) and literature-speciﬁc issues such as cultural references. Apart from annotating the errors in the MT output, we investigate how the machine translated version differs from the published human translated Dutch version of the book. We look at stylistic features such as lexical richness, cohesion, and syntactic equivalence. 
Reduction of training time is an important issue in many tasks like patent translation involving neural networks. Data parallelism and model parallelism are two common approaches for reducing training time using multiple graphics processing units (GPUs) on one machine. In this paper, we propose a hybrid data-model parallel approach for sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) recurrent neural network (RNN) machine translation. We apply a model parallel approach to the RNN encoder-decoder part of the Seq2Seq model and a data parallel approach to the attention-softmax part of the model. We achieved a speed-up of 4.13 to 4.20 times when using 4 GPUs compared with the training speed when using 1 GPU without affecting machine translation accuracy as measured in terms of BLEU scores. 
Machine Translation models are trained to translate a variety of documents from one language into another. However, models speciﬁcally trained for a particular characteristics of the documents tend to perform better. Fine-tuning is a technique for adapting an NMT model to some domain. In this work, we want to use this technique to adapt the model to a given test set. In particular, we are using transductive data selection algorithms which take advantage the information of the test set to retrieve sentences from a larger parallel set. In cases where the model is available at translation time (when the test set is provided), it can be adapted with a small subset of data, thereby achieving better performance than a generic model or a domainadapted model. 
Among recent progresses of neural machine translation models, the invention of the Transformer model is one of the most important progresses. It is well-known that the key technologies of the Transformer include multi-head attention mechanism. This paper introduces the multi-head attention mechanism into the traditional RNNbased neural machine translation model. Moreover, inspired by the existing multihop architectures such as end-to-end memory networks and convolutional sequence to sequence learning model, this paper proposes an RNN based NMT model with a multi-hop attention mechanism. The proposed multi-hop attention model has two heads, where for each head, a context vector is calculated based on the states of the encoder and the decoder. Then, in the second turn of the context vector calculation, those context vectors are updated depending not only on one’s own context vector but also on the context vector of the other head. Experimental results show that the proposed model signiﬁcantly outperforms the baseline in BLEU score in Japanese-to-English/English-toJapanese machine translation tasks with and without extended context. 
This is the first study on how patent professionals use gist machine translation (MT) in their work. Inductive, qualitative research methods were adopted to explore the role of gist MT specifically in decision-making. Results show that certain decisions by patent professionals rely on gist MT, that the decision to involve human translation is often based on a risk assessment, and that certain factors in the patent environment give affordances for the use of gist MT. The study contributes to the body of knowledge on patent MT users and on gist MT users in general. 
In this paper, we translate the glosses in the English WordNet based on the expand approach for improving and generating wordnets with the help of multilingual neural machine translation. Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has recently been applied to many tasks in natural language processing, leading to state-of-the-art performance. However, the performance of NMT often suffers from low resource scenarios where large corpora cannot be obtained. Using training data from closely related language have proven to be invaluable for improving performance. In this paper, we describe how we trained multilingual NMT from closely related language utilizing phonetic transcription for Dravidian languages. We report the evaluation result of the generated wordnets sense in terms of precision. By comparing to the recently proposed approach, we show improvement in terms of precision. 
We present a method for machine translation of clinical texts without using bilingual clinical texts, leveraging the rich terminology and structure of the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine – Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT), which is considered the most comprehensive, multilingual clinical health care terminology collection in the world. We evaluate our method for Basque to Spanish translation, comparing the performance with and without using clinical domain resources. As a method to leverage domain-speciﬁc knowledge, we incorporate to the training corpus lexical bilingual resources previously used for the automatic translation of SNOMED CT into Basque, as well as artiﬁcial sentences created making use of the relations speciﬁed in SNOMED CT. Furthermore, we use available Electronic Health Records in Spanish for backtranslation and copying. For assessing our proposal, we use Recurrent Neural Network and Transformer architectures, and we try diverse techniques for backtranslation, using not only Neural Machine Translation but also Rule-Based and Statistical Machine Translation systems. We observe large and consistent improvements ranging from 10 to 15 BLEU points, obtaining the best automatic evaluation results using Transformer for both general architecture and backtranslation systems. c 2019 The authors. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 4.0 licence, no derivative works, attribution, CC-BY-ND. MomenT-2019  
Translation process research (TPR) aims at describing what translators do, and one of the technical dimensions of translators’ work is editing (applying detailed changes to text). In this presentation, we will analyze how different methods for process data collection describe editing. We will review keyloggers used in typical TPR applications, track changes used by word processors, and edit rates based on estimation of edit distances. The purpose of this presentation is to discuss the limitations of these methods when describing editing behavior, and to incentivize researchers in looking for ways to present process data in simplified formats, closer to those that describe product data. 
This work aims to take a step towards understanding the relationship between the different dimensions of the post-editing effort. Speciﬁcally, we perform a preliminary experiment where temporal, technical and cognitive effort measurements are collected for six error types using mainstream tools. Results seem to indicate that when considered in isolation, errors do not pose signiﬁcant differences in effort within each dimension. We also ﬁnd that measurements of different tools do not always correlate. 
This study investigates whether there is a correlation between machine translation (MT) and human translation (HT) in terms of word translation entropy (i.e., the variance observed in different translations based on the same source text). Our analysis showed a significant strong correlation in all the three languages we examined: Arabic, Japanese, and Spanish. Furthermore, MT, as well as HT, was found to correlate across languages, although the associations were weaker than the MT-HT correlation in each language. 
Over the past decade, researches in the domain of Language Translation have grown multi-folds. One such area of focus is how the words are encoded, stored and retrieved from memory of individuals who are involved in process of text translation and production. Several models have been developed around this research area, among which Bilingual Interaction Activation (BIA and BIA+) and Multilink are two such popular models with precise hypothesis which can be tested. In this paper, we shall primarily focus to investigate, how the above models assumptions on lexical access (how the words are activated and retrieved in human memory during text production tasks) impact the text production time. Though the above models are designed for bilingual translations, they can also be applied to monolingual tasks. We will limit our experiment to monolingual interpretative text production tasks : Copying, Paraphrasing and Summarizing, in English language only. 
In view of the “predictive turn” in Translation Studies (Schaeffer et al., 2019), there has been increasing interest in investigating particular features of the text which can predict translation efficiency and the cognitive load of translating and post-editing. However, hypotheses of such kinds have often been on the basis of descriptive means in lack of rigorous statistical test on a large scale. In this regard, this paper seeks to empirically study the cognitive effort of translating and Machine Translation (MT) postediting in relation to different predictor variables including word frequency, word translation entropy, and syntactic choice entropy, making use of a large dataset from the CRITT Translation Process Research Database (CRITT TPR-DB, see Carl et al., 2016) which incorporates multiple languages and translation production modes. Cognitive effort is measured by eye-movement behavioural data, assuming that an increase in the number or duration of eye fixations on particular words or lexical items of the text indicates an extra processing cost in producing the translation of the corresponding items. These measures of cognitive effort are statistically correlated with frequency and entropy values of the Source Text words, followed by a qualitative analysis of the instances where these variables tend to cause increased processing effort in the translating and postediting process. With a particular focus on ambiguity resolution and the influence of formulaic expressions, the qualitative analysis intends to explain whether and how the resolution of the competition between different interpretations of a potentially 
Although note-taking has received extensive attention from scholars in interpreting studies, most of the discussions focus on the descriptive features of notes and derive from personal experience with no empirical support. Instead of solely focusing on the product of note-taking, i.e. notes, where many contradictory findings about note pattern and its connections with interpreting performance were witnessed, this study proposes and practices an innovative approach to visualize the process of note-taking and review the composition of notes. It is expected to find efficient note-taking strategies for interpreters who always find it hard to apply the proposed principles in their own note-taking due to the high individuality of notes. By replaying the note-taking process recorded by a Wacom smart pen and FlashBack (an open screen recorder) in ELAN (a free annotation toolkit), the researcher can annotate the starting time, the finishing time and the intended meaning of each note, thus coding notes into computerized data (NT standing for note-taking text). After automatic speech transcription (ASR) and manual correction of the source text (ST) and target text (TT), note-taking transcription can be concatenated with ST, and then then imported into CRITT Translation Process Database (CRITT TPR-DB) for alignment. One distinctive feature of this dataset is its unparalleled nature. During interpreting, interpreters always filter and process the input information by taking advantage of their personal experience, world knowledge and specialized knowledge. It is therefore very common to find additions, omissions and reconstructions in TT and NT. This explains why during ST-TT  alignment, renderings with no correspondence in ST are not aligned. This phenomenon is even more prominent in ST-NT alignment (the alignment of the ST with the notes that were taken during the listening phase) since notes are a byproduct of ST understanding and a predecessor of TT production, rather than a shorthand of neither the ST nor the TT. By observing how unparalleled nature develops, interpreters’ note-taking preferences, such as grammatical focus (subjects, verbs, etc.), information selection (proper nouns, numbers, etc.), note quantity and note-taking strategies (ellipse, restricting and high condensation), can be identified and further linked with interpreting performance. In addition, ear-pen span - which refers to the time lag between the source text input and the production of notes - can be a valuable indicator of cognitive load, implying the difficulty of language processing at the given interpreting environment. Computerization, therefore, carves out a new path for note-taking researchers to dig into both the product and process of note-taking. Linking note choices and note-taking behaviours with ST input and TT production provides researchers a precious opportunity to answer the kernel question in note-taking research: how to reduce processing capacity and time requirements of note-taking while maintain the efficiency of notes” (Gile,1995/2009, p. 178). References Gile, Daniel (1995, 2009). Basic Concepts and Models for Interpreter and Translator Training. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 
There exist a strong correlation between the number of translation options available for a certain word and the translator’s eye movements. Indeed, higher translation entropy (HTra) has been shown to increase uncertainty in translation choices, thus making the translation process costlier, whereas lower entropy facilitates the translation of a particular word into its target rendition. This exploratory study has been carried out at Kent State University during the second MEMENTO boot camp, and seeks to explore how translation entropy values relate to metaphors and how these correlate to behavioural data. This is achieved by retrieving and analysing existing datasets contained in the CRITT TPR-DB. Datasets with the English-Spanish language pair (BML12, six texts) are analysed in order to explore the correlation between metaphors and behavioural data. Metaphors are annotated in the source text files and then correlated to their renditions in the target texts. The identification of different types of metaphors in the source texts is performed through the application of the updated version of the Metaphor Identification Procedure (MIP) developed at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (MIPVU). The behavioural data in the TRP-DB are analysed on the basis of two parameters: (a) first fixation duration (FFDur) on the source-text item(s) used metaphorically; (b) total reading time (Trts) on the source-text items used metaphorically. Both measures are assessed and correlated to HTra,  which has been demonstrated to have a significant effect on both FFDur and Trts: first fixation durations are shorter for source-text items with low translation entropy than for items with a larger number of translation alternatives. Considering that these latter findings confirm the Literal Translation Hypothesis – according to which words are first translated literally –, the same procedure can be tentatively applied to metaphor translation, delving into studies not originally performed to investigate metaphorical language translation. A further insight can be given for cross-lingual distortion (Cross) between sourceand target-text items, in order to explore how the latter correlates to FFDur and Trts and, in particular, if any significant difference can be detected when compared to HTra. 
 Defeng Li Center for Studies of Translation, Interpreting and Cognition, University of Macau, Taipa, Macau SAR, China defengli@um.edu.mo  
This paper investigates an adaptation of an existing system for multi-word term recognition, originally developed for English, for Welsh. We overview the modifications required with a special focus on an important difference between the two representatives of two language families, Germanic and Celtic, which is concerned with the directionality of noun phrases. We successfully modelled these differences by means of lexico–syntactic patterns, which represent parameters of the system and, therefore, required no re–implementation of the core algorithm. The performance of the Welsh version was compared against that of the English version. For this purpose, we assembled three parallel domain–specific corpora. The results were compared in terms of precision and recall. Comparable performance was achieved across the three domains in terms of the two measures (P = 68.9%, R = 55.7%), but also in the ranking of automatically extracted terms measured by weighted kappa coefficient ( = 0.7758). These early results indicate that our approach to term recognition can provide a basis for machine translation of multi-word terms. 
We present universal dependencies for Scottish Gaelic and a treebank of 1021 sentences (20 021 tokens) drawn from the Annotated Reference Corpus Of Scottish Gaelic (ARCOSG). The tokens are annotated for coarse part-of-speech, ﬁnegrained part-of-speech, syntactic features and dependency relations. We discuss how the annotations differ from the treebanks developed for two other Celtic languages, Irish and Breton, and in preliminary dependency parsing experiments we obtain a mean labelled attachment score of 0.792. We also discuss some difﬁcult cases for future investigation, including cosubordination. The treebank is available, along with documentation, from https:// universaldependencies.org/. 
This paper argues for increased efforts to source Welsh language data from the population of Welsh speakers in Argentina. The dialect of Argentinean Welsh is underresourced even in comparison to other Celtic languages, which are already considered less-resourced languages (LRLs). Argentinean Welsh has been shown to diverge from other dialects of Welsh in the realization of acoustic contrasts such as voice-onset time and vowel duration. These differences potentially obscure phonemic contrasts in the language, creating homophony absent in other dialects. The inclusion of Argentinean Welsh data in training sets for future Welsh speech technology development will increase the applicability of such technology to other speaker communities whose Welsh speech may not align with that currently in use for model training, including second-language and non-ﬂuent speakers. 
This paper describes the development of the ﬁrst syntactically-annotated corpus of Welsh within the Universal Dependencies (UD) project. We explain how the corpus was prepared, and some Welsh-speciﬁc constructions that require attention. The treebank currently contains 10 756 tokens. An 10-fold cross evaluation shows that results of both, tagging and dependency parsing, are similar to other treebanks of comparable size, notably the other Celtic language treebanks within the UD project. 
As is the case with many languages, research into code-switching in Modern Irish has, until recently, mainly been focused on the spoken language. Online usergenerated content (UGC) is less restrictive than traditional written text, allowing for code-switching, and as such, provides a new platform for text-based research in this ﬁeld of study. This paper reports on the annotation of (English) code-switching in a corpus of 1496 Irish tweets and provides a computational analysis of the nature of code-switching amongst Irishspeaking Twitter users, with a view to providing a basis for future linguistic and socio-linguistic studies. 
This paper reports on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) project that aimed to implement machine translation technology at a Welsh Language Service Provider, Cymen Cyf1. The project involved leveraging the company’s large supply of previous translations in order to train custom domain-specific translation engines for its various clients. BLEU scores achieved ranged from 59.06 for the largest domain-specific engine to 48.53 to the smallest. A small experiment using the TAUS DQF productivity evaluation tool (Görög, 2014) was also run on the highestscoring translation engine, which showed an average productivity gain of 30% across all translators. Domain-specific engines were ultimately successfully introduced into the workflow for two main clients, although a lack of domain specific data proved problematic for others. Various techniques such as domain-adaptation as well as improved tagging of previous translations may ameliorate this situation in the future. 
Automatic Term Recognition (ATR) is an important method for the summarization and analysis of large corpora, and normally requires a signiﬁcant amount of linguistic input, in particular the use of part-ofspeech taggers. For an under-resourced language such as Irish, the resources necessary for this may be scarce or entirely absent. We evaluate two methods for the automatic extraction of terms, based on the small part-of-speech-tagged corpora that are available for Irish and on a large terminology list, and show that both methods can produce viable term extractors. We evaluate this with a newly constructed corpus that is the ﬁrst available corpus for term extraction in Irish. Our results shine some light on the challenge of adapting natural language processing systems to under-resourced scenarios. 
Irish and Scottish Gaelic are similar but distinct languages from the Celtic language family. Both languages are underresourced in terms of machine translation (MT), with Irish being the better resourced. In this paper, we show how backtranslation can be used to harness the resources of these similar low-resourced languages and build a Scottish-Gaelic to English MT system with little or no highquality bilingual data. 
Saint Louis, Missouri 63103-2007 kscanne@gmail.com  1Abstract In this paper, we measure the effectiveness of using language standardisation, lemmatisation, and machine translation to improve full-text search results on ​dúchas.ie​, the web interface to the Irish National Folklore Collection. Our focus is the Schools’ Collection, a scanned manuscript collection which is being transcribed by members of the public via a crowdsourcing initiative. We show that by applying these technologies to the manuscript page transcriptions, we obtain substantial improvements in search engine recall over a test set of actual user queries, with no appreciable drop in precision. Our results motivate the inclusion of this language technology in the search infrastructure of this folklore resource. 
This paper examines difficulties inherent in tokenization of Early Irish texts and demonstrates that a neural-network-based approach may provide a viable solution for historical texts which contain unconventional spacing and spelling anomalies. Guidelines for tokenizing Old Irish text are presented and the creation of a character-level LSTM network is detailed, its accuracy assessed, and efforts at optimising its performance are recorded. Based on the results of this research it is expected that a characterlevel LSTM model may provide a viable solution for tokenization of historical texts where the use of Scriptio Continua, or alternative spacing conventions, makes the automatic separation of tokens difficult. 
There is a lack of apps for learning Irish, and while there is a potential demand for such apps, good quality, pedagogically sound apps are difficult to develop. This paper reports on a green approach to develop an app for learning Irish. It refactors and reuses an existing app (WordBricks, Mozgovoy and Effimov, 2013) and adapts it for Irish. The app uses existing Irish NLP resources, specifically Uí Dhonnchadha’s Finiate Stage Mophological Analyser (2002) and Lynn’s Irish parser and treebank (2016), as part of the app. The app was developed in conjunction with teachers to ensure that it was curriculum-aligned and testing with the target learner group (primary school learners) before actual deployment in a real classroom. The app has been used by a variety of classes, ranging in age from 7 to 11 years of age. Results indicate that the app is usable and enjoyable for learners and teachers report that it is beneficial for their students. It would not have been possible to build the app in a relatively short period of time without adopting a green (i.e. refactor, reuse and real) paradigm. 
This paper presents a finite state transducer approach to morphology analyser and generator for Malayalam language, an agglutinative, inflectional Dravidian language spoken by 38 million people, mainly by people from Kerala, India. This system, named as Mlmorph, is implemented using Stuttgart Finite State Transducer(SFST) formalism and uses Helsinki Finite-State Technology(HFST) as Toolkit. Evaluations show that it is fast and effective to address the morphological and phonological nature of Malayalam. Applications like spellchecker, named entity recognition, number spell out parser and generator are also built on top of Mlmorph. 
Torwali is an endangered language spoken in the north of Pakistan. It is a computationally challenging language because of its RTL Perso-Arabic script, non-concatenative nature and distinct words alterations. This paper discusses issues and challenges regarding grammatical structure, divergence in terms of lexicon as well as morphological makeup for the machine translation of a less studied language. It includes creation of NLP tools such as parts of speech (POS) tagger and morphological analyser with HFST which is based on the idea of building lexicon and morphological rules using finite state devices. This work, on which this paper is based, will be a source of Torwali finite state morphology and its future computational growth as electronic dictionaries are usually equipped with morphological analyser and it will also be helpful for developing language pairs. Key words: Machine Translation, Lowresource language, Morphological analysis, language pairs 
In this article we describe a work-inprogress best learnt practices on how to start working on rule-based machine translation when working with language that has virtually no pre-existing digital resources for NLP use. We use Karelian language as a case study, in the beginning of our project there were no publically available corpora, parallel or monolingual analysed, no analysers and no translation tools or language models. We show workflows that we have find useful to curate and develop necessary NLP resources for the language. Our workflow is aimed also for no-resources working in a sense of no funding and scarce access to native informants, we show that building core NLP resources in parallel can alleviate the problems therein. 
Shipibo-Konibo is a low-resource language from Peru with prior results in statistical machine translation; however, it is challenging to enhance them mainly due to the expensiveness of building more parallel corpora. Thus, we aim for a continuous improvement framework of the Spanish–Shipibo-Konibo language-pair by taking advantage of more advanced strategies and crowd-sourcing. Besides the introduction of a new domain for translation based on language learning ﬂashcards, our main contributions are the extension of the machine translation experiments for Shipibo-Konibo to neural architectures with transfer and active learning; and the building of a conversational agent prototype to retrieve new translations through a social media platform. 
In this paper a machine translation system for Crimean Tatar to Turkish is presented. To our knowledge this is the ﬁrst Machine Translation system made available for public use for Crimean Tatar, and the ﬁrst such system released as free and open source software. The system was built using Apertium1, a free and open source machine translation system, and is currently unidirectional from Crimean Tatar to Turkish. We describe our translation system, evaluate it on parallel corpora and compare its performance with a Neural Machine Translation system, trained on the limited amount of corpora available. 
In this paper we develop a neural machine translation (NMT) system for translating from English into Irish and vice versa. We evaluate the performance of NMT on the resource-poor English-Irish (EN–GA) language pair, show that we can achieve good translation quality in comparison to previously reported systems, and outperform Google TranslateTM with several BLEU points on a domain-specific test set related to the legal domain. We show that back-translation of monolingual data closely related to the domain of the test set can further increase the model’s performance. Finally, we present a lightweight method for filtering synthetic sentence pairs obtained via back-translation using a tool for misalignment detection. We show that our approach results in a slightly higher BLEU score while requiring less training data. 
Current neural machine translation (NMT) approaches achieve state-of-the-art accuracy in high-resource contexts. However, NMT requires a great deal of parallel data to deliver acceptable results; thus, it is currently unsuited for translating in lowresource contexts (especially when compared to phrase-based approaches). We propose a method that better leverages the limited data available in such low-resource settings by adapting the model for each sentence at inference time. A general NMT model is trained on the limited training data; then, for each test sentence, its parameters are ﬁne-tuned over a subset of similar sentences extracted from the training set. We experiment with various similarity metrics to extract these similar sentences. It is observed that the sentenceadapted models achieve slightly increased BLEU scores compared to standard neural approaches on a Xhosa-English dataset. 
We describe corpora for the LORELEI (Low Resource Languages for Emergent Incidents) Program, whose goal is to build human language technologies to provide situational awareness during emergent incidents, with a particular focus on low resource languages. Incident Language packs are used for system development and testing in machine translation, entity disambiguation and linking, and the “situation frame” task, which requires aggregation of information about the emergent incident. Incident languages, as well as the incidents themselves, remain unknown until the evaluation begins, and no labeled training data is provided; systems developers must rapidly adapt technology for the incident language and return initial results within 24 hours. Given this surprise language evaluation scenario, Representative Language packs are designed to support research into cross-language projection and language universals rather than to provide training data. They contain large volumes of monolingual and parallel text, basic annotations, lexical resources and simple NLP tools for 23 languages selected for typological diversity and coverage. We discuss the creation of the LORELEI language packs with a special focus on resources for machine translation, as well as techniques for maintaining consistency across the language packs. © 2019 The authors. This article is licensed under a Crea- tive Commons 4.0 license, no derivative works, attribution, CCBY-ND.  
Multimodal machine translation is the task of translating from a source text into the target language using information from other modalities. Existing multimodal datasets have been restricted to only highly resourced languages. In addition to that, these datasets were collected by manual translation of English descriptions from the Flickr30K dataset. In this work, we introduce MMDravi, a Multilingual Multimodal dataset for under-resourced Dravidian languages. It comprises of 30,000 sentences which were created utilizing several machine translation outputs. Using data from MMDravi and a phonetic transcription of the corpus, we build an Multilingual Multimodal Neural Machine Translation system (MMNMT) for closely related Dravidian languages to take advantage of multilingual corpus and other modalities. We evaluate our translations generated by the proposed approach with human-annotated evaluation dataset in terms of BLEU, METEOR, and TER metrics. Relying on multilingual corpora, phonetic transcription, and image features, our approach improves the translation quality for the underresourced languages. 
Low resource languages face a major challenge in developing machine translation systems due to unavailability of accurate and parallel datasets with a large corpus size. In the present work, Factored Neural machine Translation Systems have been developed for the following bidirectional language pairs: English & Bhojpuri, English & Magahi, English & Sindhi along with the uni-directional language pair English - Latvian. Both the lemma and Part of Speech (PoS) tags are included as factors to the surface-level English words. No factoring has been done on the low resource language side. The submitted systems have been developed with the parallel datasets provided and no additional parallel or monolingual data have been included. All the seven systems have been evaluated by the LoResMT 2019 organizers in terms of BLEU score, Precision, Recall and F-measure evaluation metrics. It is observed that better evaluation scores have been obtained in those MT systems in which English is the target language. The reason behind this is that the incorporation of lemma and pos tags factors for English words has improved the vocabulary coverage and has also helped in generalization. It is expected that incorporation of linguistic factors on the low resource language words would have improved the evaluation scores of the MT systems involving those languages on the target side. 
This paper presents the key results of a study on the global competitiveness of the European Machine Translation market in comparison to North America and Asia. The study focuses on seven dimensions that have been selected to characterize the machine translation market. The study concludes that while Europe still has strong positions in Research and Innovation, it lags behind North America and Asia in Industry and Investments, and is also weaker than North America in Infrastructure, Data availability, and Market visibility. 
This paper describes strategies to improve an existing web-based computeraided translation (CAT) tool entitled CATaLog Online. CATaLog Online provides a post-editing environment with simple yet helpful project management tools. It offers translation suggestions from translation memories (TM), machine translation (MT), and automatic post-editing (APE) and records detailed logs of post-editing activities. To test the new approaches proposed in this paper, we carried out a user study on an English–German translation task using CATaLog Online. User feedback revealed that the users preferred using CATaLog Online over existing CAT tools in some respects, especially by selecting the output of the MT system and taking advantage of the color scheme for TM suggestions. 
This paper summarises findings from structured interviews with Hungarian translators in the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Translation on their experiences with neural machine translation as a translation aid since 2017. The translators have widely divergent views on the use and usefulness of neural machine translation and varying practices when it comes to integrating it into their work. The paper concludes that human factors play a crucial role in the success of application and argues that translators’ attitudes and intriguing cognitive processes merit greater scientific attention. 
We introduce our approach to apply machine translation to psychology, especially to translate English adjectives in a psychological personality questionnaire. We first extend seed English personality adjectives with a word2vec model trained with web sentences, and then feed the acquired words to a phrase-based machine translation model. We use Moses trained with bilingual corpora that consist of TED subtitles, movie’ subtitles and Wikipedia. We collect Japanese translations whose translation probabilities are higher than .01 and filter them based on human evaluations. This resulted in 507 Japanese personality descriptors. We conducted a web-survey (N=17,751) and finalized a personality questionnaire. Statistical analyses supported the five-factor structure, reliability and criterion-validity of the newly developed questionnaire. This shows the potential applicability of machine translation to psychology. We discuss further issues related to machine translation application to psychology. 
This paper reports the results of a study designed to assess the perception of adequacy of three different types of machine translation systems within the context of a minoritized language combination (Spanish-Galician). To perform this evaluation, a mixed design with three different metrics (BLEU, survey and error analysis) is used to extract quantitative and qualitative data about two marketing letters from the energy industry translated with a rulebased system (RBMT), a phrase-based system (PBMT) and a neural system (NMT). Results show that in the case of low-resource languages rule-based and phrase-based machine translations systems still play an important role. 
This paper illustrates how we successfully implemented MTPE in our workflow and how the decision of having our own engine turned out to be decisive. After having compared different solutions, we decided to choose an MT provider that could train an engine on our behalf with our material (TMs and glossary in the field of mechanics) to translate patents upon customers’ request. After the training, we tested the new engine to evaluate the MT output. Because the quality was so good, we decided to create an in-house team of post-editors, coordinated by one of our senior translators. Due to the increasing request from some of our customers, we needed also some external post-editors to count on, so we contacted an LSP specialized in post-editing and we offered them training in patents post-editing. The challenge for the future is to involve more freelancers and to be able to overcome the resistance that many of them still have towards Machine Translation. 
Neural machine translation (NMT) systems have emerged as powerful platforms for providing fluent translations in a variety of languages and domains. The widespread adoption of NMT has heightened the need for studying the results and impact of these systems. Although acceptance of machine translation has been analyzed, the expectations of users towards NMT have not received much attention yet. This paper investigates the expectations of novice translators enrolled on a postgraduate program in specialized translation. In addition, it examines the confirmation or disconfirmation of expectations towards machine translation (MT) output among this user group. A three-step mixed-method approach was applied: a quantitative questionnaire and two recurrent (pre-trial and post-trial) evaluations of raw MT outputs. The evaluations consisted of the identification and classification of errors in NMT output according to the Multidimensional Quality Metrics. The respondents expected the MT output to be of rather low quality, but the quality of NMT output was not as high as the participants expected. Compared to the expected frequency of error types in the MT output, the reported frequency differed significantly. This paper argues that the users’ experience and expectations have an impact on the use and evaluation of machine translation.  
In the last years, we have witnessed an increase in the use of post-editing of machine translation (PEMT) in the translation industry. It has been included as part of the translation workﬂow because it increases productivity of translators. Currently, many Language Service Providers offer PEMT as a service. For many years now, (closely) related languages have been post-edited using rulebased and phrase-based machine translation (MT) systems because they present less challenges due to their morphological and syntactic similarities. Given the recent popularity of neural MT (NMT), this paper analyzes the performance of this approach compared to phrase-based statistical MT (PBSMT) on in-domain and general domain documents. We use standard automatic measures and temporal and technical effort to assess if NMT yields a real improvement when it comes to post-editing the Spanish-Catalan language pair. 
The use of Machine Translation is spreading quickly in the translation industry. While its implementation is smooth in some contexts, in the regulated services industry it certainly seems trickier. In particular, the financial services industry can be considered a less conventional scenario within which to implement MT. This paper explains how MT was successfully implemented in the workflow of a translation company specialized in financial services, and how freelance translators got positively involved in the process. 
In this study, the authors developed a set of pre-editing rules for TED Talk subtitling to translate Japanese source text into English. The simplified rules optimized for NMT (＠TexTra® Minnano jido hon’yaku) were intended for use by a monolingual pre-editor of content to be disseminated in English. The rules were a) insert punctuation b) make implied subjects and objects explicit, and c) write proper nouns in English. The effectiveness of the rules was evaluated by human raters and BLEU score. Quality improvement was confirmed significant on human evaluation, although in some cases no changes or even degrade in quality were observed. However, one of the main concerns about the feasibility of this approach, the 21-character limit specified in the TED subtitling guidelines, was validated. The authors hold that pre-editing plus NMT is a promising approach to translating TED Talk subtitles. 
Despite the importance of trust in any work environment, this concept has rarely been investigated for MT. The present contribution aims at ﬁlling this gap by presenting a post-editing experiment carried out with translator trainees. An institutional academic text was translated from Italian into English. All participants worked on the same target text. Half of them were told that the text was a human translation needing revision, while the other half was told that it was an MT output to be postedited. Temporal and technical effort were measured based on words per second and HTER. Results were complemented with a manual analysis of a subset of the observations. 
Automatic evaluation of machine translation (MT) is based on the idea that the quality of the MT output is better if it is more similar to human translation (HT). Whereas automatic metrics based on this similarity idea enable fast and large-scale evaluation of MT progress and therefore are widely used, they have certain limitations. One is the fact that the automatic metrics are not able to recognise acceptable differences between MT and HT. The frequent cause of these differences are translation shifts, the optional departures from theoretical formal correspondence between source and target language units for the sake of adapting the text to the norms and conventions of the target language. This work is based on the author’s own translation experience related to the evaluation of MT output compared to the experience unrelated to MT. The main observation is that, although without any instructions in this direction, fewer translation shifts were performed than when translating for other purposes. This ﬁnding will hopefully initialise further systematic research both from the aspect of MT as well as from the aspect of translation studies (TS) and bring translation theory and MT closer together. 
Lichi Translations LTD / P.O. Box 18, Be'er Ya'akov, 70300 Israel Ira.ovchi@gmail.com  Daria Morozova HEC Paris / 
In this comparative study, a jury instruction scenario was used to test the translating capabilities of multiple machine translation tools and a human translator with extensive court experience. Three certified translators/interpreters subjectively evaluated the target texts generated using adequacy and fluency as the evaluation metrics. This subjective evaluation found that the machine generated results had much poorer adequacy and fluency compared with results produced by their human counterpart. Human translators can use strategic omission and explicitation strategies such as addition, paraphrasing, substitution, and repetition to remove ambiguity, and achieve a natural flow in the target language. We also investigate instances where human evaluators have major disagreements and found that human experts could have very biased views. On the other hand, a word2vec based algorithm, if given a good reference translation, can serve as a robust and reliable similarity reference to quantify human evalutors’ biases beacuse it was trained on a large corpus using neural network models. Even though the machine generated versions had better fluency performance compared to their adequacy  performance, the human translator’s fluency performance was still far superior. The lack of under- standing by machine translators led to inaccurate and improper word/phrase selections, which led to bad fluency. 
Terminology translation is a critical aspect in translation quality assurance, as it requires exact forms not typically expected of conventional translation. Recent studies have examined the quality of machine translation, but little work has focused speciﬁcally on the translation of terms. We present a comparative evaluation of the success of NMT and PBSMT systems in term translation. We selected eight language pairs among English, French, German, Finnish, and Romanian, taking into account their diverse language families and resource abundance. Based on the evaluation of Exact Match (EM) and recall scores, we concluded that NMT, in general, performs better with context, but PBSMT outperforms when translating without context, and found that signiﬁcant differences often arise from language nature. 
The objective of project NEC TM Data1 is to organise unexploited national bilingual assets that can be used as open data and general data for machine learning, in order to lower translation costs at a national level and across member states. It runs a study on the expenditure at the national level on translation contracts, as well as at the regional and municipal levels. The software will help member states centralise these language assets with the NEC TM database, following industry best practices. NEC TM is based on the ElasticSearch2 (Gormley, 2015) ActivaTM server which is a centralised translation memory (TM) server independent of any computer-assisted translation (CAT) tool for efficient data sharing, TM matching, TM retrieval, and domain categorisation of resources. In short, ActivaTM separates the need of every CAT tool to have its own TM server. It is possible to store bilingual assets and later retrieve them through any CAT tool using the API calls to NEC TM Translators can translate and access each other’s work simultaneously from different CAT tools. ActivaTM is the basis for the NEC TM (fork-out) for the scope of this project. It has been selected as a CEF (Connecting Europe Facility) project by the European Commission as the database of choice to provide unified translation memory  services to EU public administrations and collect and build bilingual big data from public translation contracts. Each European country will be able to install their own NEC TM and new translation contracts from translation companies will benefit from fuzzy matching analysis and will be able to work online and connect to each national NEC TM server. Translation data will be categorised in NEC TM, and a connection provided to eTranslation and ELRC. The consortium for the project is composed by Pangeanic, Tilde, Ciklopea and Secretary of State for Digital Progress (SEAD) of Spain. The NEC TM Data project consortium advocates for the facilitation of a single digital market. It will act as a meeting point for European data gathering efforts and the collection of national digital big data. By building a data bridge between public administrations and translation vendors, NEC TM Data project will promote the free flow of data between Public Administrations and translation professionals. References Gormley, Clinton, and Zachary Tong. 2015. Elasticsearch: The definitive guide: A distributed realtime search and analytics engine. O'Reilly Media, Inc.  © 2019 The authors. This article is licensed under a Crea- tive Commons 4.0 licence, no derivative works, attribution, CCBY-ND.  
The APE-QUEST project (2018–2020) sets up a quality gate and crowdsourcing workflow for the eTranslation system of EC’s Connecting Europe Facility to improve translation quality in specific domains. It packages these services as a translation portal for machine-to-machine and machine-to-human scenarios. 
 The main activities in PRINCIPLE are:  PRINCIPLE is a new 2-year project starting in September 2019 funded by the European Commission under the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) programme. Parallel data for Croatian, Icelandic, Irish and Norwegian are in relatively short supply, so that the quality of the eTranslation machine translation (MT) engines is less than would be the case if larger parallel corpora were available. PRINCIPLE will gather parallel data for these languages and English, evaluate the quality of the gathered resources via MT, and deliver corpora deemed to be of high quality to eTranslation for improved MT engine training. 
The iADAATPA1 project coded as N◦ 2016-EU-IA-0132 that ended in February 2019 is made for building of customized, domain-speciﬁc engines for public administrations from EU Member States. The consortium of the project decided to use neural machine translation at the beginning of the project. This represented a challenge for all involved, and the positive aspect is that all public administrations engaged in the iADAATPA project were able to try, test and use state-of-the-art neural technology with a high level of satisfaction. One of the main challenges faced by all partners was data availability. Although all public administrations had some data available, it was clearly insufﬁcient for high-level customization. In some cases, we had merely a few hundred words or several tens of thousand words. Each domain (ﬁeld) has its own unique word distribution and neural machine translation systems are known to suffer a decrease in performance when data is out-of-domain. Pangeanic is a language service provider (LSP) specialised in natural language processing and machine translation. It provides solutions to cognitive companies, institutions, translation professionals, and corporations. The problem faced by the iADAATPA project at Pangeanic was twofold: c 2019 The authors. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 4.0 licence, no derivative works, attribution, CCBY-ND. 1http://iadaatpa.com/  
The MICE project (2018 – 2020) will deliver a middleware layer for improving the output quality of the eTranslation system of the European Commission’s Connecting Europe Facility, through additional services, such as domain adaptation and named-entity recognition. It will also deliver a user portal, allowing for human post-editing. 
We describe two projects funded by the Connecting Europe Facility, Provision of Web-Scale Parallel Corpora for Ofﬁcial European Languages (2016-EU-IA-0114, completed) and Broader Web-Scale Provision of Parallel Corpora for European Languages (2017-EU-IA-0178, ongoing), which aim at harvesting parallel corpora from the Internet for languages used in the European Union. In addition to parallel corpora, the project releases successive versions of the free/open-source web crawling software used. 
The INTERnAtional network on Crisis Translation (INTERACT) project under EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE) Programme aimed at researching translation in crisis scenarios. In this extended abstract, we present the work on Pivot Machine Translation under the INTERACT project. 
We present the EU H2020 GoURMET project (2019-2021) which aims to tackle the challenge of low-resource machine translation for our media partners. This will help them to both monitor news in a wider range of languages, and also more efﬁciently produce content especially for languages from Africa and India. Overview Machine translation (MT) is an increasingly important technology for supporting communication in a globalised world. Over the last few years neural machine translation methods have led to signiﬁcant improvements in translation quality. However, they rely on large parallel corpora for training and are not able to deliver usable translations for the vast majority of language pairs in the world. The aim of GoURMET is to signiﬁcantly improve the robustness and applicability of neural machine translation for low-resource language pairs and domains. The project is co-ordinated by the University of Edinburgh, and the other partners are: the Universitat d’Alacant, the Universiteit van Amsterdam, the British Broadcasting Corporation, and Deutsche Welle. So far we have delivered 8 translation models to our user partners (BBC and DW) for evaluation. These models cover the language pairs of English to and from Turkish, Gujarathi, Swahili and Bulgarian. Objectives 1. Advancing low-resource deep learning for natural language applications; c 2019 The authors. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 4.0 licence, no derivative works, attribution, CCBY-ND. 
Zhandos Zhumanov Al-Farabi Kazakh National University 71 Al-Farabi ave., Almaty, 050040, Kazakhstan z.zhake@gmail.com  
Rule-based machine translation is a machine translation paradigm where linguistic knowledge is encoded by an expert in the form of rules that translate from source to target language. While this approach grants total control over the output of the system, the cost of formalising the needed linguistic knowledge is much higher than training a corpus-based system, where a machine learning approach is used to automatically learn to translate from examples. In this paper, we describe different approaches to leverage the information contained in rulebased machine translation systems to improve a corpus-based one, namely, a neural machine translation model, with a focus on a low-resource scenario. Our results suggest that adding morphological information to the source language is as effective as using subword units in this particular setting. 
This paper presents a system that can be used to generate Elasticsearch (database) query strings for English-speaking cyberthreat hunters, security analysts or responders (agents) using a natural language interface. This system relies on a hybrid translation approach combining translation memory, information extraction and text classiﬁcation techniques. The resulting queries may be used to (i) speed up the on-boarding of agents that are not (too) familiar with a speciﬁc, ﬂexible database schema and (ii) collect question-to-query mappings with a view to train future models using a more robust framework (e.g. NMT). The system presented in this paper supports multiple data sources, including an industry-standard knowledge base and collections of existing queries provided by individual or corporate threat hunters. It allows users to ask questions about speciﬁc cybersecurity event or incident details and generates Elasticsearch query strings that can be executed against a database containing security event data. This paper presents the key components of the backend system and highlights some of the user interface design choices that were made to maximize user adoption. 
As a commercial provider of machine translation, we are constantly training engines for a variety of uses, languages, and content types. In each case, there can be many variables, such as the amount of training data available, and the quality requirements of the end user. These variables can have an impact on the robustness of Neural MT engines. On the whole, Neural MT cures many ills of other MT paradigms, but at the same time it has introduced a new set of challenges to address. In this paper, we describe some of the speciﬁc issues with practical NMT and the approaches we take to improve model robustness in real world scenarios. 
We report on a model for machine translation (MT) of software, without review, for the Microsoft Office product range. We have deployed an automated localisation workflow, known as Automated Translation (AT) for software, which identifies resource strings as suitable and safe for MT without post-editing. The model makes use of string profiling, user impact assessment, MT quality estimation, and customer feedback mechanisms. This allows us to introduce automatic translation at a safe velocity, with a minimal risk to customer satisfaction. Quality constraints limit the volume of MT in relation to human translation, with published low-quality MT limited to not exceed 10% of total word count. The AT for software model has been deployed into production for most of the Office product range, for 37 languages. It allows us to MT and publish without review over 20% of the word count for some languages and products. To date, we have processed more than 1 million words with this model, and so far have not seen any measurable negative impact on customer satisfaction. 
Machine translation (MT) and post-edited machine translation (PEMT) have traditionally been explored primarily in the context of legal and medical content types, where MT results are often easier to predict due to the heavily standardised language structure and unambiguous nature of terminology used. Each content type and domain presents its unique challenges to both MT systems and linguists performing the post-editing tasks. This paper describes how PEMT can be applied in the fashion eCommerce domain, taking a popular British fashion brand – Topshop – as an example. This paper aims to explore different aspects of delivering PEMT to a fashion eCommerce client, the most prominent being linguists’ involvement in machine translation-related activities, including their key role in transitioning from human translation to statistical machine translation (SMT), and then from SMT to neural machine translation (NMT). The implications of switching from full human translation to PEMT for the end client and overall learnings made by the language service provider (LSP) during these transitions will be also discussed. 
While developing NMT systems for our customers involving Slavic languages, we encountered certain issues that do not affect Latin or Germanic languages. The most striking of these is the morphological complexity inherent in a remarkable number of unique synthetic forms. For each language combination, the aim is always to find the best balance between the size of the vocabulary, the quality of the translation and the performance of the MT model (both training time and translation time). When working with Slavic idioms, the variety of cases and genders makes this challenge even more difficult and engaging. For Slavic source languages, our solution is to add an extra pre-processing step before the actual translation, in which the inflected word is reduced to its components; naturally, in the opposite direction this requires a symmetrical post-processing technique. Tests have proven high-quality results for Slavic languages, either source or target, confirming this as an effective approach. 
This paper reports the results of an indepth evaluation of 34 state-of-the-art domain-adapted machine translation (MT) systems that were built by four leading MT companies as part of the EU-funded iADAATPA project. These systems support a wide variety of languages for several domains. The evaluation combined automatic metrics and human methods, namely assessments of adequacy, ﬂuency, and comparative ranking. The paper also discusses the most effective techniques to build domain-adapted MT systems for the relevant language combinations and domains. 
BabelDr is a medical speech to speech translator, where the doctor has to approve the sentence that will be translated for the patient before translation; this step is done using monolingual backtranslation, which converts the speech recognition result into a core sentence. In this work, we model this step as a simpliﬁcation task and propose to use neural networks to perform the backtranslation by generating and choosing the best core sentence. Results of a task-based evaluation show that neural networks outperform previous versions of the system. 
Neural Machine Translation has achieved impressive results in the last couple years, in particular when aided by domain adaptation methods. However, it has well known caveats, and can sometimes generate inadequate content that appears ﬂuent, but does not convey the meaning of the original sentence. In particular, for scarce in-domain data, these models tend to overﬁt, performing poorly on any content that differs slightly from the domain data. In this paper, we apply a recent technique based on translation pieces and show that it can work as a way to improve and stabilize domain adaptation. We present human evaluation results, with gains as high as 20 MQM points for single domains, and consistent gains in a multiple subdomain scenario of 3 MQM points for several language pairs. 
 75% and above are shown to the linguists as draft translations during post-editing, and the rest of  This study intends to determine whether replacing fuzzy TM matches by suggestions from neural machine translation (NMT) can decrease the post-editing effort. We compare the post-editing distance of TM fuzzy matches and of NMT suggestions based on two datasets. We found that in one of the datasets MT was consistently more useful than TM matches, but in the other dataset it was not. We argue that it is necessary to collect extensive data on PED in TM matches in order to be able to easily optimize the TM threshold for any given project.  the segments are pre-translated by an MT system. This study intends to investigate if the threshold has to be raised considering the increase in MT quality, and if so where the new threshold should lie. In other words, we want to know if the linguists’ performance will increase if we use MT suggestions instead of the so-called high fuzzy matches (75-99%), and what it depends on. We approached this task by measuring the post-editing distance (PED) between the TM matches and the final translation and comparing it to the PED between NMT suggestions and the same final translations. This will show whether the amount of editing that has to be applied to the  
A common use of machine translation in the industry is providing initial translation hypotheses, which are later supervised and post-edited by a human expert. During this revision process, new bilingual data are continuously generated. Machine translation systems can beneﬁt from these new data, incrementally updating the underlying models under an online learning paradigm. We conducted a user study on this scenario, for a neural machine translation system. The experimentation was carried out by professional translators, with a vast experience in machine translation post-editing. The results showed a reduction in the required amount of human effort needed when post-editing the outputs of the system, improvements in the translation quality and a positive perception of the adaptive system by the users. 
Quality estimation (QE) of machine translation (MT), the task of predicting the quality of an MT output without human references, is particularly suitable in dynamic translation workﬂows, where translations need to be assessed continuously with no speciﬁc reference provided. In this paper, we investigate sentence-level neural QE and its applicability in an industry usecase. We assess six QE approaches, which we divide into two-phase and one-phase approaches, based on quality and cost. Our evaluation shows that while two-phase systems perform best in terms of the predicted QE scores, their computational costs suggest that alternatives should be considered for large-scale translation production. 
This paper is devoted to developing a recurrent neural network (RNN) solution for segmenting the unpunctuated transcripts generated by automatic speech recognition for simultaneous interpretation. RNNs are effective in capturing long-distance dependencies and straightforward for online decoding. Thus, they are ideal for the task compared to the conventional n-gram language model (LM) based approaches and recent neural machine translation based approaches. This paper proposes a multishifted RNN to address the trade-off between accuracy and latency, which is one of the key characteristics of the task. Experiments show that our proposed method improves the segmentation accuracy measured in F1 by 21.1% while maintains approximately the same latency, and reduces the BLEU loss to the oracle segmentation by 28.6%, when compared to a strong baseline of the RNN LM-based method. Our online sentence segmentation toolkit is open-sourced 1 to promote the ﬁeld. 
The goal of cross-lingual information retrieval (CLIR) is to ﬁnd relevant documents written in languages different from that of the query. Robustness to translation errors is one of the main challenges for CLIR, especially in low-resource settings where there is limited training data for building machine translation (MT) systems or bilingual dictionaries. If the test collection contains speech documents, additional errors from automatic speech recognition (ASR) makes translation even more difﬁcult. We propose a robust document representation that combines N-best translations and a novel bag-of-phrases output from various ASR/MT systems. We perform a comprehensive empirical analysis on three challenging collections; they consist of Somali, Swahili, and Tagalog speech/text documents to be retrieved by English queries. By comparing various ASR/MT systems with different error proﬁles, our results demonstrate that a richer document representation can consistently overcome issues in low translation accuracy for CLIR in low-resource settings. 
In recent years, pretrained word embeddings have proved useful for multimodal neural machine translation (NMT) models to address the shortage of available datasets. However, the integration of pretrained word embeddings has not yet been explored extensively. Further, pretrained word embeddings in high dimensional spaces have been reported to suffer from the hubness problem. Although some debiasing techniques have been proposed to address this problem for other natural language processing tasks, they have seldom been studied for multimodal NMT models. In this study, we examine various kinds of word embeddings and introduce two debiasing techniques for three multimodal NMT models and two language pairs — English–German translation and English–French translation. With our optimal settings, the overall performance of multimodal models was improved by up to +1.62 BLEU and +1.14 METEOR for English–German translation and +1.40 BLEU and +1.13 METEOR for English– French translation. 
The combination of machines and humans for translation is effective, with many studies showing productivity gains when humans post-edit machine-translated output instead of translating from scratch. To take full advantage of this combination, we need a ﬁne-grained understanding of how human translators work, and which post-editing styles are more effective than others. In this paper, we release and analyze a new dataset with document-level post-editing action sequences, including edit operations from keystrokes, mouse actions, and waiting times. Our dataset comprises 66,268 full document sessions postedited by 332 humans, the largest of the kind released to date. We show that action sequences are informative enough to identify post-editors accurately, compared to baselines that only look at the initial and ﬁnal text. We build on this to learn and visualize continuous representations of posteditors, and we show that these representations improve the downstream task of predicting post-editing time. 
Translation quality could degrade nongracefully outside the desired domain for MT. Meanwhile, translation requests are often unknown and potentially out-ofdomain in practice. This paper shows that having an ecosystem with a range of pretrained domain-speciﬁc MT systems can reduce the effect: a translation task can be out of scope of most pre-trained MT systems, but a few others can be capable of handling the task. But how to obtain the best translation from an ecosystem for such translation requests? We contribute two frameworks to address the problem. Experiments show that our frameworks give the performance in the middle between top rank MT systems with reasonably large-scale ecosystems. 
This paper presents preliminary results of a study of Japanese native speakers working with the Microsoft Word application in two modalities: the released Japanese version and a machine translated (MT) version (the raw MT strings incorporated into the MS Word interface). To explore the effect of translation modality on task completion, time and satisfaction, an experiment using an eyetracker was set up with a group of 42 users: 22 native Japanese and 20 native English speakers. The results suggest that Japanese-native speakers have higher completion scores and are more efficient when working with the released versions of the product than with the MT version, but these differences are not significant. Their self-reported satisfaction, however, is significantly higher when working with the released product as opposed to the raw MT version. 
This paper presents MAGMATic (Multidomain Academic Gold Standard with Manual Annotation of Terminology), a novel Italian–English benchmark which allows MT evaluation focused on terminology translation. The data set comprises 2,056 parallel sentences extracted from institutional academic texts, namely course unit and degree program descriptions. This text type is particularly interesting since it contains terminology from multiple domains, e.g. education and different academic disciplines described in the texts. All terms in the English target side of the data set were manually identiﬁed and annotated with a domain label, for a total of 7,517 annotated terms. Due to their peculiar features, institutional academic texts represent an interesting test bed for MT. As a further contribution of this paper, we investigate the feasibility of exploiting MT for the translation of this type of documents. To this aim, we evaluate two stateof-the-art Neural MT systems on MAGMATic, focusing on their ability to translate domain-speciﬁc terminology. 
Although automatic classiﬁcation of machine translation errors still cannot provide the same detailed granularity as manual error classiﬁcation, it is an important task which enables estimation of translation errors and better understanding of the analyzed MT system, in a short time and on a large scale. State-of-the-art methods use hard decisions to assign single error labels to each word. This work presents ﬁrst results of a new error classiﬁcation method, which assigns multiple error labels to each word. We assign fractional counts for each label, which can be interpreted as a conﬁdence for the label. Our method generates sensible multi-error suggestions, and improves the correlation between manual and automatic error distributions. 
We propose an interactive-predictive neural machine translation framework for easier model personalization using reinforcement and imitation learning. During the interactive translation process, the user is asked for feedback on uncertain locations identiﬁed by the system. Responses are weak feedback in the form of “keep” and “delete” edits, and expert demonstrations in the form of “substitute” edits. Conditioning on the collected feedback, the system creates alternative translations via constrained beam search. In simulation experiments on two language pairs our systems get close to the performance of supervised training with much less human effort. 
Earlier approaches indirectly studied the information captured by the hidden states of recurrent and non-recurrent neural machine translation models by feeding them into different classiﬁers. In this paper, we look at the encoder hidden states of both transformer and recurrent machine translation models from the nearest neighbors perspective. We investigate to what extent the nearest neighbors share information with the underlying word embeddings as well as related WordNet entries. Additionally, we study the underlying syntactic structure of the nearest neighbors to shed light on the role of syntactic similarities in bringing the neighbors together. We compare transformer and recurrent models in a more intrinsic way in terms of capturing lexical semantics and syntactic structures, in contrast to extrinsic approaches used by previous works. In agreement with the extrinsic evaluations in the earlier works, our experimental results show that transformers are superior in capturing lexical semantics, but not necessarily better in capturing the underlying syntax. Additionally, we show that the backward recurrent layer in a recurrent model learns more about the semantics of words, whereas the forward recurrent layer encodes more context. 
Due to the scarcity of parallel training data for many language pairs, quasi-parallel or comparable training data provides an important alternative resource for training machine translation systems for such language pairs. Since comparable corpora are not of as high quality as manually annotated parallel data, using them for training can have a negative effect on the translation performance of an NMT model. We propose distillation as a remedy to effectively leverage comparable data where the training of a student model on combined clean and comparable data is guided by a teacher model trained on the high-quality, clean data only. Our experiments for Arabic-English, ChineseEnglish, and German-English translation demonstrate that distillation yields significant improvements compared to off-theshelf use of comparable data and performs comparable to state-of-the-art methods for noise ﬁltering. 
This paper proposes a novel multilingual multistage ﬁne-tuning approach for low-resource neural machine translation (NMT), taking a challenging Japanese– Russian pair for benchmarking. Although there are many solutions for lowresource scenarios, such as multilingual NMT and back-translation, we have empirically conﬁrmed their limited success when restricted to in-domain data. We therefore propose to exploit out-of-domain data through transfer learning, by using it to ﬁrst train a multilingual NMT model followed by multistage ﬁne-tuning on in-domain parallel and back-translated pseudo-parallel data. Our approach, which combines domain adaptation, multilingualism, and back-translation, helps improve the translation quality by more than 3.7 BLEU points, over a strong baseline, for this extremely low-resource scenario. 
Modeling anaphora resolution is critical for proper pronoun translation in neural machine translation. Recently it has been addressed by context-aware models with varying success. In this work, we propose a carefully designed training curriculum that facilitates better anaphora resolution in context-aware NMT. As a baseline, we train context-aware models as was done in previous work. We leverage oracle information speciﬁc to anaphora resolution during training. Following the intuition behind curriculum learning, we are able to train context-aware models which are improved with respect to coreference resolution, even though both the baseline and the improved system have access to exactly the same information at test time. We test our approach using two pronoun-speciﬁc evaluation metrics for MT. 
As one of the contributions of this paper, this paper ﬁrst explores the upper bound of context-based neural machine translation and attempt to utilize previously unused context information. We found that, if we could appropriately select the most informative context sentence for a given input source sentence, we could boost translation accuracy as much as approximately 10 BLEU points. This paper next explores a criterion to select the most informative context sentences that give the highest BLEU score. Applying the proposed criterion, context sentences that yield the highest forced back-translation probability when back-translating into the source sentence are selected. Experimental results with Japanese and English parallel sentences from the OpenSubtitles2018 corpus demonstrate that, when the context length of ﬁve preceding and ﬁve subsequent sentences are examined, the proposed approach achieved signiﬁcant improvements of 0.74 (Japanese to English) and 1.14 (English to Japanese) BLEU scores compared to the baseline 2-to-2 model, where the oracle translation achieved upper bounds improvements of 5.88 (Japanese to English) and 9.10 (English to Japanese) BLEU scores. 
Memory-augmented neural networks (MANNs) have been shown to outperform other recurrent neural network architectures on a series of artiﬁcial sequence learning tasks, yet they have had limited application to real-world tasks. We evaluate direct application of Neural Turing Machines (NTM) and Differentiable Neural Computers (DNC) to machine translation. We further propose and evaluate two models which extend the attentional encoder-decoder with capabilities inspired by memory augmented neural networks. We evaluate our proposed models on IWSLT Vietnamese→English and ACL Romanian→English datasets. Our proposed models and the memory augmented neural networks perform similarly to the attentional encoder-decoder on the Vietnamese→English translation task while have a 0.3-1.9 lower BLEU score for the Romanian→English task. Interestingly, our analysis shows that despite being equipped with additional ﬂexibility and being randomly initialized memory augmented neural networks learn an algorithm for machine translation almost identical to the attentional encoder-decoder. 
Phrase-based machine translation provides the system developer with controls that enable ﬁne-grained control over machine translation output. One approach to provide similar control in neural machine translation is placeholding (herein called masking), which replaces input tokens with masks which are replaced with the original input text in post-processing. But is this a good idea? We undertake an exploration of masking in French–English and Japanese–English using Transformer architectures. We attempt to quantify whether (and where) masking is necessary with analysis of a baseline system, and then explore numerous parameterization of masking, including post-processing techniques for replacing the masks. Our analysis shows this to be a thorny matter; masks solve some problems but are not perfectly translated themselves. 
Today’s machine translation systems output the same translation for a given input, despite important differences between users. In practice, translations should be customized for each reader, for instance when translating for children versus in a business setting. In this paper, we introduce the task of reading level control to machine translation, and provide the ﬁrst results. Our methods can be used to raise or lower the reading level of output translations. In our ﬁrst approach, sourceside sentences in the training corpus are tagged based on the reading level (readability) of the matching target sentences. Our second approach alters the traditional encoder-decoder architecture by specifying a joint encoder and separate decoders for simple and complex decoding modes, with training data partitioned by reading level. We demonstrate control over output readability score on three test sets in the Spanish–English language direction. 
Most neural machine translation systems are built upon subword units extracted by methods such as Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) or wordpiece. However, the choice of number of merge operations is generally made by following existing recipes. In this paper, we conduct a systematic exploration on different numbers of BPE merge operations to understand how it interacts with the model architecture, the strategy to build vocabularies and the language pair. Our exploration could provide guidance for selecting proper BPE conﬁgurations in the future. Most prominently: we show that for LSTM-based architectures, it is necessary to experiment with a wide range of different BPE operations as there is no typical optimal BPE conﬁguration, whereas for Transformer architectures, smaller BPE size tends to be a typically optimal choice. We urge the community to make prudent choices with subword merge operations, as our experiments indicate that a sub-optimal BPE conﬁguration alone could easily reduce the system performance by 3–4 BLEU points. 
Neural networks have become the stateof-the-art approach for machine translation (MT) in many languages. While linguistically-motivated tokenization techniques were shown to have signiﬁcant effects on the performance of statistical MT, it remains unclear if those techniques are well suited for neural MT. In this paper, we systematically compare neural and statistical MT models for Arabic-English translation on data preprecossed by various prominent tokenization schemes. Furthermore, we consider a range of data and vocabulary sizes and compare their effect on both approaches. Our empirical results show that the best choice of tokenization scheme is largely based on the type of model and the size of data. We also show that we can gain signiﬁcant improvements using a system selection that combines the output from neural and statistical MT. 
This work presents an empirical approach to quantifying the loss of lexical richness in Machine Translation (MT) systems compared to Human Translation (HT). Our experiments show how current MT systems indeed fail to render the lexical diversity of human generated or translated text. The inability of MT systems to generate diverse outputs and its tendency to exacerbate already frequent patterns while ignoring less frequent ones, might be the underlying cause for, among others, the currently heavily debated issues related to gender biased output. Can we indeed, aside from biased data, talk about an algorithm that exacerbates seen biases? 
With the impressive ﬂuency of modern machine translation output, systems may produce output that is ﬂuent but not adequate (ﬂuently inadequate). We seek to identify these errors and quantify their frequency in MT output of varying quality. To that end, we introduce a method for automatically predicting whether translated segments are ﬂuently inadequate by predicting ﬂuency using grammaticality scores and predicting adequacy by augmenting sentence BLEU with a novel Bag-of-Vectors Sentence Similarity (BVSS). We then apply this technique to analyze the outputs of statistical and neural systems for six language pairs with different levels of translation quality. We ﬁnd that neural models are consistently more prone to this type of error than traditional statistical models. However, improving the overall quality of the MT system such as through domain adaptation reduces these errors. 
Neural machine translation (NMT) systems operate primarily on words (or subwords), ignoring lower-level patterns of morphology. We present a characteraware decoder designed to capture such patterns when translating into morphologically rich languages. We achieve character-awareness by augmenting both the softmax and embedding layers of an attention-based encoder-decoder model with convolutional neural networks that operate on the spelling of a word. To investigate performance on a wide variety of morphological phenomena, we translate English into 14 typologically diverse target languages using the TED multi-target dataset. In this low-resource setting, the character-aware decoder provides consistent improvements with BLEU score gains of up to +3.05. In addition, we analyze the relationship between the gains obtained and properties of the target language and ﬁnd evidence that our model does indeed exploit morphological patterns. 
Two of the more predominant technologies that professional translators have at their disposal for improving productivity are machine translation (MT) and computeraided translation (CAT) tools based on translation memories (TM). When translators use MT, they can use automatic postediting (APE) systems to automate part of the post-editing work and get further productivity gains. When they use TMbased CAT tools, productivity may improve if they rely on fuzzy-match repair (FMR) methods. In this paper we combine FMR and APE: ﬁrst a FMR proposal is produced from the translation unit proposed by the TM, then this proposal is further improved by an APE system specially tuned for this purpose. Experiments conducted on the translation of English texts into German show that, with the two combined technologies, the quality of the translations improves up to 23% compared to a pure MT system. The improvement over a pure FMR system is of 16%, showing the effectiveness of our joint solution. 
Neural machine translation (NMT) has set new quality standards in automatic translation, yet its effect on post-editing productivity is still pending thorough investigation. We empirically test how the inclusion of NMT, in addition to domain-speciﬁc translation memories and termbases, impacts speed and quality in professional translation of ﬁnancial texts. We ﬁnd that even with language pairs that have received little attention in research settings and small amounts of in-domain data for system adaptation, NMT post-editing allows for substantial time savings and leads to equal or slightly better quality. 
Post-editing (PE) machine translation (MT) is widely used for dissemination because it leads to higher productivity than human translation from scratch (HT). In addition, PE translations are found to be of equal or better quality than HTs. However, most such studies measure quality solely as the number of errors. We conduct a set of computational analyses in which we compare PE against HT on three different datasets that cover ﬁve translation directions with measures that address different translation universals and laws of translation: simpliﬁcation, normalisation and interference. We ﬁnd out that PEs are simpler and more normalised and have a higher degree of interference from the source language than HTs. 
Most existing research on the automatic anonymization of text data has been limited to the de-identiﬁcation of medical records. This is beginning to change following the passage of GDPR privacy laws, which have made the task of automatic text anonymization more relevant than ever. We present our privacy protection toolkit, AnonyMate, which is built to anonymize both personal identifying information (PII) as well as corporate identifying information (CII) in humancomputer dialogue text data. 
Electronic patient records are produced in abundance every day and there is a demand to use them for research or management purposes. The records, however, contain information in the free text that can identify the patient and therefore tools are needed to identify this sensitive information. The aim is to compare two machine learning algorithms, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Conditional Random Fields (CRF) applied to a Swedish clinical data set annotated for de-identiﬁcation. The results show that CRF performs better than deep learning with LSTM, with CRF giving the best results with an F1 score of 0.91 when adding more data from within the same domain. Adding general open data did, on the other hand, not improve the results. 
This study describes a rule-based pseudonymisation system for Swedish clinical text and its evaluation. The pseudonymisation system replaces already tagged Protected Health Information (PHI) with realistic surrogates. There are eight types of manually annotated PHIs in the electronic patient records; personal ﬁrst and last names, phone numbers, locations, dates, ages and healthcare units. Two evaluators, both computer scientists, one junior and one senior, evaluated whether a set of 98 electronic patients records where pseudonymised or not. Only 3.5 percent of the records were correctly judged as pseudonymised and 1.5 percent of the real ones were wrongly judged as pseudo, giving that in average 91 percent of the pseudonymised records were judged as real. 
A lot of the decision making in ﬁnancial institutions, regarding particularly investments and risk management, is data-driven. An important task to effectively gain insights from unstructured text documents is text classiﬁcation and in particular sentiment analysis. Sentiment lexicons, i.e. lists of words with corresponding sentiment orientations, are a very valuable resource to build strong baseline models for sentiment analysis that are easy to interpret and computationally efﬁcient. We present a novel method to learn classiﬁcation lexicons from a labeled text corpus that incorporates word similarities in the form of pre-trained word embeddings. We show on two sentiment analysis tasks that utilizing pre-trained word embeddings improves the accuracy over the baseline method. The accuracy improvement is particularly large when labeled data is scarce, which is often the case in the ﬁnancial domain. Moreover, the new method can be used to generate sensible sentiment scores for words outside the labeled training corpus. 
Traditionally and in order to predict market movement, investors used to analyze the stock prices and stock indicators in addition to the news related to these stocks. Hence, the importance of news on the stock price movement. Most of the previous work in this industry focused on either classifying the released market news as (positive, negative, neutral) and demonstrating their effect on the stock price or focused on the historical price movement and predicted their future movement. In this work, we propose an automated trading system that integrates mathematical functions, machine learning, and other external factors such as news’ sentiments for the purpose of achieving better stock prediction accuracy and issuing profitable trades. Particularly, we aim to determine the price or the trend of a certain stock for the coming end-of-day considering the first several trading hours of the day. To achieve this goal, we trained traditional machine learning algorithms and created/trained multiple deep learning models taking into consideration the importance of the relevant news. Various experiments were conducted, the highest accuracy (82.91%) of which was achieved using SVM for Apple Inc. (AAPL) stock 
Investment reports contain qualitative information from numerous sources. Due to the huge volume of online business information, it is increasingly difﬁcult for ﬁnancial analysts to track and read all relevant texts. In this paper, we develop a novel tool to assist ﬁnancial analysts when writing an investment report. We perform multi-class classiﬁcation on business texts to categorise them into informative investment topics. Using active learning we show that we can obtain the same F1-score of 0.74 with 58% less data. 
The present study contributes to the literature on the language of the tax-andregulations domain in the context of highly-formatted tax forms published by a federal agency. Content and form analyses rely on a methodology that looks for meaning and patterns in connection to the main purpose of income tax filing, i.e. figuring out calculations to determine whether taxes were overpaid or owed to the United States Internal Revenue Service. Profiling the income-tax forms by spelling out language regularities across the set has at least two advantages. Firstly, profiling contributes to the understanding of how the 2010 Plain Writing Act mandate of ‘clear and simple’ writing is being achieved—if at all. Secondly, profiling a small, unannotated corpus can help determine the Natural Language Processing approach best fitted to extract, represent, and execute automatically tax calculations expressed as arithmetic word problems. 
 This paper analyzes the tone (including polarity and semantic orientations) in a corpus of financial reports in Spanish. Specifically, we look at the Letter to Shareholders section of the Annual Reports, which focuses on an analysis of the financial performance, corporate strategies and other aspects relevant to investors. We use FinT-esp, a semantic analysis tool developed for Spanish narratives, based on lexicons and phrasestructure information. We divide the corpus in four subgroups based on the net earnings figure as a benchmark, to identify differences in tone between profit firms and loss firms. This paper confirms that Spanish financial narratives suffers a communicative bias towards positive terms (Pollyanna effect). Additionally, we provide a gold standard of financial narratives, based on a random selection of 1% of the sentences of the corpus of Letters. We run a first evaluation of three different sentiment analysis tools (Azure, Watson and FinT-esp) compared to the GS and observe that tone analysis in the financial narratives domain breaks with classical sentiment analysis (based on subjective feelings, value judgments, emotions). Financial narratives tone is linked to measurable facts and figures (financial results) and investors' expectations about the future performance of the firm. 
We present different methods for the two tasks of the 2019 FinTOC challenge: Title Detection and Table of Contents Extraction. For the Title Detection task we present different approaches using various features : visual characteristics, punctuation density and character n-grams. Our best approach achieved an ofﬁcial F-measure score of 94.88%, ranking 6 on this task. For the TOC extraction task, we presented a method combining visual characteristics of the document layout. With this method we ranked ﬁrst on this task with 42.72%. 
We present the approach developed at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto to participate in FinTOC-2019 Financial Document Structure Extraction – Detection of titles sub-task. Several ﬁnancial documents are produced in machine-readable format. Due to the poor structure of these documents, it is an arduous task to retrieve the desired information from them. The aim of this sub-task is to detect titles in this kind of documents. We propose a supervised learning approach making use of linguistic, semantic and morphological features to classify a text block as title or non title. The proposed methodology got a F1 score of 97.01%. 
Predicting the knowledge of language learners is crucial for personalized interactions in any intelligent tutoring system for language learning. This study adopts a machine learning approach to the task of predicting the knowledge of single words for individual learners of English. We experiment with two machine learning models, neural networks and random forest, and with a set of learnerspeciﬁc and word-speciﬁc features. Both the models are trained for all the learners together. However, since learner-speciﬁc features are used, the prediction is personalized for every learner. Both of the models achieve state-of-the-art results for the task of vocabulary prediction for English learners. 
This paper presents a method for the automatic generation and semantic evaluation of exercise sentences for Esperanto teaching. Our sentence grader exploits both corpus data and lexical resources (verb frames and noun/adjective ontologies) to either generate meaningful sentences from scratch, or to determine the acceptability of a given input sentence. Individual words receive scores for how well they match the semantic conditions projected onto their place in the syntactic tree. In a CALL context, the system works with a lesson-/level-constrained vocabulary and can be integrated into e.g. substitution table or slot filler exercises. While the method as such is language-independent, we also discuss how morphological clues (affixes) can be exploited for semantic purposes. When evaluated on out-of-corpus course materials and short stories, the system achieved a rejection precision, in terms of false positives, of 98-99% at the sentence level, and 93-97% at the word level. 
It is important for language learners to practice speaking and writing in realistic scenarios. The learners also need feedback on how to express themselves better in the new language. In this paper, we perform automatic paraphrase generation on language-learner texts. Our goal is to devise tools that can help language learners write more correct and natural sounding sentences. We use a pivoting method with a character-based neural machine translation system trained on subtitle data to paraphrase and improve learner texts that contain grammatical errors and other types of noise. We perform experiments in three languages: Finnish, Swedish and English. We experiment with monolingual data as well as error-augmented monolingual and bilingual data in addition to parallel subtitle data during training. Our results show that our baseline model trained only on parallel bilingual data sets is surprisingly robust to different types of noise in the source sentence, but introducing artiﬁcial errors can improve performance. In addition to error correction, the results show promise for using the models to improve ﬂuency and make language-learner texts more idiomatic. 
This work explores the relationship between L2 proﬁciency levels and certain linguistic features through experiments in automatic proﬁciency classiﬁcation. We use L2 Spanish and L2 Portuguese data and perform monolingual and cross-lingual experiments. We also compare native and leaner Spanish texts. To the best of our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst work that performs automatic proﬁciency classiﬁcation for L2 Spanish, as well as cross-lingual proﬁciency classiﬁcation between L2 Portuguese and L2 Spanish. Our results for L2 Spanish are similar to the state-of-the-art, while our crosslingual experiments got lower results than similar works. In general, all the experiments suggest new insights about the relationship between linguistic features and proﬁciency levels in L2 Portuguese and L2 Spanish. 
Reading material that is of interest and at the right level for learners is an essential component of effective language education. The web has long been identiﬁed as a valuable source of reading material due to the abundance and variability of materials it offers and its broad range of attractive and current topics. Yet, the web as source of reading material can be problematic in low literacy contexts. We present ongoing work on a hybrid approach to text retrieval that combines the strengths of web search with retrieval from a high-quality, curated corpus resource. Our system, KANSAS Suche 2.0, supports retrieval and reranking based on criteria relevant for language learning in three different search modes: unrestricted web search, ﬁltered web search, and corpus search. We demonstrate their complementary strengths and weaknesses with regard to coverage, readability, and suitability of the retrieved material for adult literacy and basic education. We show that their combination results in a very versatile and suitable text retrieval approach for education in the language arts. 
In this article, we describe the modiﬁcations of MagicWord, a language learning game focused on accuracy, in order to allow the integration of new languages. We ﬁrst describe the motivations behind the design of the game. Then we explain the modiﬁcations performed before exploring the consequences both game-wise and language learning-wise. In order to improve their replay-value, language learning games need to rely on language resources of diverse complexity depending on their rules and objectives. In this paper, we tackle the issue of providing multi-language resources for a language learning letter game, MagicWord. Before exploring the technical difﬁculties as well as their intricacies both in terms of language representation, learning and gaming, we will explain the game, its objectives and the design process. 
Learning analytics and educational data mining have gained an increased interest as an important way of understanding the way humans learn. The paper introduces an adaptive language learning system designed to track and accelerate the development of academic vocabulary skills thereby generating dense longitudinal data of individual vocabulary growth trajectories. We report on an exploratory study based on the dense longitudinal data obtained from our system. The goal is the study was twofold: (1) to examine the pace and shape of vocabulary growth trajectories and (2) to understand the role various individual differences factors play in explaining variation in such growth trajectories. 
Summarization Evaluation and ShortAnswer Grading share the challenge of automatically evaluating content quality. Therefore, we explore the use of ROUGE, a well-known Summarization Evaluation method, for Short-Answer Grading. We ﬁnd a reliable ROUGE parametrization that is robust across corpora and languages and produces scores that are signiﬁcantly correlated with human short-answer grades. ROUGE adds no information to ShortAnswer Grading NLP-based machine learning features in a by-corpus evaluation. However, on a question-by-question basis, we ﬁnd that the ROUGE Recall score may outperform standard NLP features. We therefore suggest to use ROUGE within a framework for per-question feature selection or as a reliable and reproducible baseline for SAG. 
In this paper, we report some preliminary experiments on automated scoring of nonnative English speech and the prompt speciﬁc nature of the constructed models. We use ICNALE, a publicly available corpus of non-native speech, as well as a variety of non-proprietary speech and natural language processing (NLP) tools. Our results show that while the best performing model achieves an accuracy of 73% for a 4-way classiﬁcation task, this performance does not transfer to a cross-prompt evaluation scenario. Our feature selection experiments show that most predictive features are related to the vocabulary aspects of speaking proﬁciency. 
This paper explores Short Answer Assessment (SAA) for the purpose of giving automatic meaning-oriented feedback in the context of a language tutoring system. In order to investigate the performance of standard SAA approaches on student responses arising in real-life foreign language teaching, we experimented with two different factors: 1) the incorporation of spelling normalization in the form of a task-dependent noisy channel model spell checker (Brill and Moore, 2000) and 2) training schemes, where we explored taskand item-based splits in addition to standard tenfold cross-validation. For evaluation purposes, we compiled a data set of 3,829 student answers across different comprehension task types collected in a German school setting with the English tutoring system FeedBook (Rudzewitz et al., 2017; Ziai et al., 2018) and had an expert score the answers with respect to appropriateness (correct vs. incorrect). Overall, results place the normalization-enhanced SAA system ahead of the standard version and a strong baseline derived from standard text similarity measures. Additionally, we analyze task-speciﬁc SAA performance and outline where further research could make progress. 
Defining words in a textual context is a useful task both for practical purposes and for gaining insight into distributed word representations. Building on the distributional hypothesis, we argue here that the most natural formalization of definition modeling is to treat it as a sequence-to-sequence task, rather than a word-to-sequence task: given an input sequence with a highlighted word, generate a contextually appropriate definition for it. We implement this approach in a Transformer-based sequence-to-sequence model. Our proposal allows to train contextualization and definition generation in an end-to-end fashion, which is a conceptual improvement over earlier works. We achieve state-of-the-art results both in contextual and non-contextual definition modeling.
We extend a state-of-the-art deep neural architecture for semantic dependency parsing with features defined over syntactic dependency trees. Our empirical results show that only gold-standard syntactic information leads to consistent improvements in semantic parsing accuracy, and that the magnitude of these improvements varies with the specific combination of the syntactic and the semantic representation used. In contrast, automatically predicted syntax does not seem to help semantic parsing. Our error analysis suggests that there is a significant overlap between syntactic and semantic representations.
In this paper, we critically evaluate the widespread assumption that deep learning NLP models do not require lemmatized input. To test this, we trained versions of contextualised word embedding ELMo models on raw tokenized corpora and on the corpora with word tokens replaced by their lemmas. Then, these models were evaluated on the word sense disambiguation task. This was done for the English and Russian languages. The experiments showed that while lemmatization is indeed not necessary for English, the situation is different for Russian. It seems that for rich-morphology languages, using lemmatized training and testing data yields small but consistent improvements: at least for word sense disambiguation. This means that the decisions about text pre-processing before training ELMo should consider the linguistic nature of the language in question.
The multilingual BERT model is trained on 104 languages and meant to serve as a universal language model and tool for encoding sentences. We explore how well the model performs on several languages across several tasks: a diagnostic classification probing the embeddings for a particular syntactic property, a cloze task testing the language modelling ability to fill in gaps in a sentence, and a natural language generation task testing for the ability to produce coherent text fitting a given context. We find that the currently available multilingual BERT model is clearly inferior to the monolingual counterparts, and cannot in many cases serve as a substitute for a well-trained monolingual model. We find that the English and German models perform well at generation, whereas the multilingual model is lacking, in particular, for Nordic languages. The code of the experiments in the paper is available at: https://github.com/TurkuNLP/bert-eval
Encoders that generate representations based on context have, in recent years, benefited from adaptations that allow for pre-training on large text corpora. Earlier work on evaluating fixed-length sentence representations has included the use of {`}probing{'} tasks, that use diagnostic classifiers to attempt to quantify the extent to which these encoders capture specific linguistic phenomena. The principle of probing has also resulted in extended evaluations that include relatively newer word-level pre-trained encoders. We build on probing tasks established in the literature and comprehensively evaluate and analyse {--} from a typological perspective amongst others {--} multilingual variants of existing encoders on probing datasets constructed for 6 non-English languages. Specifically, we probe each layer of a multiple monolingual RNN-based ELMo models, the transformer-based BERT{'}s cased and uncased multilingual variants, and a variant of BERT that uses a cross-lingual modelling scheme (XLM).
Due to the differences between reviews in different product categories, creating a general model for cross-domain sentiment classification can be a difficult task. This paper proposes an architecture that incorporates domain knowledge into a neural sentiment classification model. In addition to providing a cross-domain model, this also provides a quantifiable representation of the domains as numeric vectors. We show that it is possible to cluster the domain vectors and provide qualitative insights into the inter-domain relations. We also a) present a new data set for sentiment classification that includes a domain parameter and preprocessed data points, and b) perform an ablation study in order to determine whether some word groups impact performance.
This paper discusses methods to improve the performance of text classification on data that is difficult to classify due to a large number of unbalanced classes with noisy examples. A variety of features are tested, in combination with three different neural-network-based methods with increasing complexity. The classifiers are applied to a songtext{--}artist dataset which is large, unbalanced and noisy. We come to the conclusion that substantial improvement can be obtained by removing unbalancedness and sparsity from the data. This fulfils a classification task unsatisfactorily{---}however, with contemporary methods, it is a practical step towards fairly satisfactory results.
This work compares the performances achieved by Phrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation systems (PB-SMT) and attention-based Neuronal Machine Translation systems (NMT) when translating User Generated Content (UGC), as encountered in social medias, from French to English. We show that, contrary to what could be expected, PBSMT outperforms NMT when translating non-canonical inputs. Our error analysis uncovers the specificities of UGC that are problematic for sequential NMT architectures and suggests new avenue for improving NMT models.
Standard approaches to treebanking traditionally employ a waterfall model (Sommerville, 2010), where annotation guidelines guide the annotation process and insights from the annotation process in turn lead to subsequent changes in the annotation guidelines. This process remains a very expensive step in creating linguistic resources for a target language, necessitates both linguistic expertise and manual effort to develop the annotations and is subject to inconsistencies in the annotation due to human errors. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach to treebanking{---}one that requires writing grammars. This approach is motivated specifically in the context of Universal Dependencies, an effort to develop uniform and cross-lingually consistent treebanks across multiple languages. We show here that a bootstrapping approach to treebanking via interlingual grammars is plausible and useful in a process where grammar engineering and treebanking are jointly pursued when creating resources for the target language. We demonstrate the usefulness of synthetic treebanks in the task of delexicalized parsing. Our experiments reveal that simple models for treebank generation are cheaper than human annotated treebanks, especially in the lower ends of the learning curves for delexicalized parsing, which is relevant in particular in the context of low-resource languages.
More and more evidence is appearing that integrating symbolic lexical knowledge into neural models aids learning. This contrasts the widely-held belief that neural networks largely learn their own feature representations. For example, recent work has shows benefits of integrating lexicons to aid cross-lingual part-of-speech (PoS). However, little is known on how complementary such additional information is, and to what extent improvements depend on the coverage and quality of these external resources. This paper seeks to fill this gap by providing a thorough analysis on the contributions of lexical resources for cross-lingual PoS tagging in neural times.
This paper investigates the presence of gender bias in pretrained Swedish embeddings. We focus on a scenario where names are matched with occupations, and we demonstrate how a number of standard pretrained embeddings handle this task. Our experiments show some significant differences between the pretrained embeddings, with word-based methods showing the most bias and contextualized language models showing the least. We also demonstrate that the previously proposed debiasing method does not affect the performance of the various embeddings in this scenario.
Determining how words have changed their meaning is an important topic in Natural Language Processing. However, evaluations of methods to characterise such change have been limited to small, handcrafted resources. We introduce an English evaluation set which is larger, more varied, and more realistic than seen to date, with terms derived from a historical thesaurus. Moreover, the dataset is unique in that it represents change as a shift from the term of interest to a WordNet synset. Using the synset lemmas, we can use this set to evaluate (standard) methods that detect change between word pairs, as well as (adapted) methods that detect the change between a term and a sense overall. We show that performance on the new data set is much lower than earlier reported findings, setting a new standard.
We apply hyperbolic embeddings to trace the dynamics of change of conceptual-semantic relationships in a large diachronic scientific corpus (200 years). Our focus is on emerging scientific fields and the increasingly specialized terminology establishing around them. Reproducing high-quality hierarchical structures such as WordNet on a diachronic scale is a very difficult task. Hyperbolic embeddings can map partial graphs into low dimensional, continuous hierarchical spaces, making more explicit the latent structure of the input. We show that starting from simple lists of word pairs (rather than a list of entities with directional links) it is possible to build diachronic hierarchical semantic spaces which allow us to model a process towards specialization for selected scientific fields.
We present an evaluation of Czech low-dimensional distributed word representations, also known as word embeddings. We describe five different approaches to training the models and three different corpora used in training. We evaluate the resulting models on five different datasets, report the results and provide their further analysis.
In this paper, we investigate the effect of enhancing lexical embeddings in LSTM language models (LM) with syntactic and semantic representations. We evaluate the language models using perplexity, and we evaluate the performance of the models on the task of predicting human sentence acceptability judgments. We train LSTM language models on sentences automatically annotated with universal syntactic dependency roles (Nivre, 2016), dependency depth and universal semantic tags (Abzianidze et al., 2017) to predict sentence acceptability judgments. Our experiments indicate that syntactic tags lower perplexity, while semantic tags increase it. Our experiments also show that neither syntactic nor semantic tags improve the performance of LSTM language models on the task of predicting sentence acceptability judgments.
This paper analyzes results on light-verb construction identification from the PARSEME shared-task, distinguishing between simple cases that could be directly learned from training data from more complex cases that require an extra level of semantic processing. We propose a simple baseline that beats the state of the art for the simple cases, and couple it with another simple baseline to handle the complex cases. We additionally present two other classifiers based on a richer set of features, with results surpassing the state of the art by 8 percentage points.
We explore the effectiveness of four feature representations {--} bag-of-words, word embeddings, principal components and autoencoders {--} for the binary categorization of the easy-to-read variety vs standard language. Standard language refers to the ordinary language variety used by a population as a whole or by a community, while the {``}easy-to-read{''} variety is a simpler (or a simplified) version of the standard language. We test the efficiency of these feature representations on three corpora, which differ in size, class balance, unit of analysis, language and topic. We rely on supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms. Results show that bag-of-words is a robust and straightforward feature representation for this task and performs well in many experimental settings. Its performance is equivalent or equal to the performance achieved with principal components and autoencorders, whose preprocessing is however more time-consuming. Word embeddings are less accurate than the other feature representations for this classification task.
Affordances denote actions that can be performed in the presence of different objects, or possibility of action in an environment. In robotic systems, affordances and actions may suffer from poor semantic generalization capabilities due to the high amount of required hand-crafted specifications. To alleviate this issue, we propose a method to mine for object-action pairs in free text corpora, successively training and evaluating different prediction models of affordance based on word embeddings.
This paper documents the creation of a large-scale dataset of evaluative sentences {--} i.e. both subjective and objective sentences that are found to be sentiment-bearing {--} based on mixed-domain professional reviews from various news-sources. We present both the annotation scheme and first results for classification experiments. The effort represents a step toward creating a Norwegian dataset for fine-grained sentiment analysis.
We present our work towards developing a system that should find, in a large text corpus, contiguous phrases expressing similar meaning as a query phrase of arbitrary length. Depending on the use case, this task can be seen as a form of (phrase-level) query rewriting. The suggested approach works in a generative manner, is unsupervised and uses a combination of a semantic word n-gram model, a statistical language model and a document search engine. A central component is a distributional semantic model containing word n-grams vectors (or embeddings) which models semantic similarities between n-grams of different order. As data we use a large corpus of PubMed abstracts. The presented experiment is based on manual evaluation of extracted phrases for arbitrary queries provided by a group of evaluators. The results indicate that the proposed approach is promising and that the use of distributional semantic models trained with uni-, bi- and trigrams seems to work better than a more traditional unigram model.
We present ParIce, a new English-Icelandic parallel corpus. This is the first parallel corpus built for the purposes of language technology development and research for Icelandic, although some Icelandic texts can be found in various other multilingual parallel corpora. We map out which Icelandic texts are available for these purposes, collect aligned data and align other bilingual texts we acquired. We describe the alignment process and how we filter the data to weed out noise and bad alignments. In total we collected 43 million Icelandic words in 4.3 million aligned segment pairs, but after filtering, our corpus includes 38.8 million Icelandic words in 3.5 million segment pairs. We estimate that approximately 5{\%} of the corpus data is noise or faulty alignments while more than 50{\%} of the segments we deleted were faulty. We estimate that our filtering process reduced the number of faulty segments in the corpus by more than 60{\%} while only reducing the number of good alignments by approximately 8{\%}.
The topic of this paper is The Database of Icelandic Morphology (DIM), a multipurpose linguistic resource, created for use in language technology, as a reference for the general public in Iceland, and for use in research on the Icelandic language. DIM contains inflectional paradigms and analysis of word formation, with a vocabulary of approx. 285,000 lemmas. DIM is based on The Database of Modern Icelandic Inflection, which has been in use since 2004.
This paper presents an overview of the available linguistic resources for the Sakha language, and presents new tools for supporting language learning for Sakha. The essential resources include a morphological analyzer, digital dictionaries, and corpora of Sakha texts. Based on these resources, we implement a language-learning environment for Sakha in the Revita CALL platform. We extended an earlier, preliminary version of the morphological analyzer/transducer, built on the Apertium finite-state platform. The analyzer currently has an adequate level of coverage, between 86{\%} and 89{\%} on two Sakha corpora. Revita is a freely available online language learning platform for learners beyond the beginner level. We describe the tools for Sakha currently integrated into the Revita platform. To the best of our knowledge, at present, this is the first large-scale project undertaken to support intermediate-advanced learners of a minority Siberian language.
We show how to express the problem of finding an optimal morpheme segmentation from a set of labelled words as a 0/1 linear programming problem, and how to build on this to analyse a language{'}s morphology. The approach works even when there is very little training data available.
This paper explores the use of multi-task learning (MTL) for incorporating external knowledge in neural models. Specifically, we show how MTL can enable a BiLSTM sentiment classifier to incorporate information from sentiment lexicons. Our MTL set-up is shown to improve model performance (compared to a single-task set-up) on both English and Norwegian sentence-level sentiment datasets. The paper also introduces a new sentiment lexicon for Norwegian.
The task of stance detection consists of classifying the opinion within a text towards some target. This paper seeks to generate a dataset of quotes from Danish politicians, label this dataset to allow the task of stance detection to be performed, and present annotation guidelines to allow further expansion of the generated dataset. Furthermore, three models based on an LSTM architecture are designed, implemented and optimized to perform the task of stance detection for the generated dataset. Experiments are performed using conditionality and bi-directionality for these models, and using either singular word embeddings or averaged word embeddings for an entire quote, to determine the optimal model design. The simplest model design, applying neither conditionality or bi-directionality, and averaged word embeddings across quotes, yields the strongest results. Furthermore, it was found that inclusion of the quotes politician, and the party affiliation of the quoted politician, greatly improved performance of the strongest model.
The net is rife with rumours that spread through microblogs and social media. Not all the claims in these can be verified. However, recent work has shown that the stances alone that commenters take toward claims can be sufficiently good indicators of claim veracity, using e.g. an HMM that takes conversational stance sequences as the only input. Existing results are monolingual (English) and mono-platform (Twitter). This paper introduces a stance-annotated Reddit dataset for the Danish language, and describes various implementations of stance classification models. Of these, a Linear SVM provides predicts stance best, with 0.76 accuracy / 0.42 macro F1. Stance labels are then used to predict veracity across platforms and also across languages, training on conversations held in one language and using the model on conversations held in another. In our experiments, monolinugal scores reach stance-based veracity accuracy of 0.83 (F1 0.68); applying the model across languages predicts veracity of claims with an accuracy of 0.82 (F1 0.67). This demonstrates the surprising and powerful viability of transferring stance-based veracity prediction across languages.
NER is the task of recognizing and demarcating the segments of a document that are part of a name and which type of name it is. We use 4 different categories of names: Locations (LOC), miscellaneous (MISC), organizations (ORG), and persons (PER). Even though we employ state of the art methods{---}including sub-word embeddings{---}that work well for English, we are unable to reproduce the same success for the Norwegian written forms. However, our model performs better than any previous research on Norwegian text. The study also presents the first NER for Nynorsk. Lastly, we find that by combining Nynorsk and Bokm{\aa}l into one training corpus we improve the performance of our model on both languages.
Named entity recognition (NER) is a well-researched task in the field of NLP, which typically requires large annotated corpora for training usable models. This is a problem for languages which lack large annotated corpora, such as Finnish. We propose an approach to create a named entity recognizer with no annotated or parallel documents, by leveraging strong NER models that exist for English. We automatically gather a large amount of \textit{chronologically matched} data in two languages, then project named entity annotations from the English documents onto the Finnish ones, by resolving the matches with limited linguistic rules. We use this {``}artificially{''} annotated data to train a BiLSTM-CRF model. Our results show that this method can produce annotated instances with high precision, and the resulting model achieves state-of-the-art performance.
News articles such as sports game reports are often thought to closely follow the underlying game statistics, but in practice they contain a notable amount of background knowledge, interpretation, insight into the game, and quotes that are not present in the official statistics. This poses a challenge for automated data-to-text news generation with real-world news corpora as training data. We report on the development of a corpus of Finnish ice hockey news, edited to be suitable for training of end-to-end news generation methods, as well as demonstrate generation of text, which was judged by journalists to be relatively close to a viable product. The new dataset and system source code are available for research purposes.
Historical cryptology is the study of historical encrypted messages aiming at their decryption by analyzing the mathematical, linguistic and other coding patterns and their historical context. In libraries and archives we can find quite a lot of ciphers, as well as keys describing the method used to transform the plaintext message into a ciphertext. In this paper, we present work on automatically mapping keys to ciphers to reconstruct the original plaintext message, and use language models generated from historical texts to guess the underlying plaintext language.
Human voice provides the means for verbal communication and forms a part of personal identity. Due to genetic and environmental factors, a voice of a child should resemble the voice of her parent(s), but voice similarities between parents and young children are underresearched. Read-aloud speech of Finnish-speaking and Russian-speaking parent-child pairs was subject to perceptual and multi-step instrumental and statistical analysis. Finnish-speaking listeners could not discriminate family pairs auditorily in an XAB paradigm, but the Russian-speaking listeners{'} mean accuracy of answers reached 72.5{\%}. On average, in both language groups family-internal f0 similarities were stronger than family-external, with parents showing greater family-internal similarities than children. Auditory similarities did not reflect acoustic similarities in a straightforward way.
Cross-modality between vision and language is a key component for effective and efficient communication, and human language processing mechanism successfully integrates information from various modalities to extract the intended meaning. However, incomplete linguistic input, i.e. due to a noisy environment, is one of the challenges for a successful communication. In that case, an incompleteness in one channel can be compensated by information from another one. In this paper, by conducting visual-world paradigm, we investigated the dynamics between syntactically possible gap fillers and the visual arrangements in incomplete German sentences and their effect on overall sentence interpretation.
In this paper we introduce a new natural language processing dataset and benchmark for predicting prosodic prominence from written text. To our knowledge this will be the largest publicly available dataset with prosodic labels. We describe the dataset construction and the resulting benchmark dataset in detail and train a number of different models ranging from feature-based classifiers to neural network systems for the prediction of discretized prosodic prominence. We show that pre-trained contextualized word representations from BERT outperform the other models even with less than 10{\%} of the training data. Finally we discuss the dataset in light of the results and point to future research and plans for further improving both the dataset and methods of predicting prosodic prominence from text. The dataset and the code for the models will be made publicly available.
We consider cross- and multilingual text classification approaches to the identification of online registers (genres), i.e. text varieties with specific situational characteristics. Register is the most important predictor of linguistic variation, and register information could improve the potential of online data for many applications. We introduce the first manually annotated non-English corpus of online registers featuring the full range of linguistic variation found online. The data set consists of 2,237 Finnish documents and follows the register taxonomy developed for the Corpus of Online Registers of English (CORE). Using CORE and the newly introduced corpus, we demonstrate the feasibility of cross-lingual register identification using a simple approach based on convolutional neural networks and multilingual word embeddings. We further find that register identification results can be improved through multilingual training even when a substantial number of annotations is available in the target language.
We present a system for Natural Language Inference which uses a dynamic semantics converter from abstract syntax trees to Coq types. It combines the fine-grainedness of a dynamic semantics system with the powerfulness of a state-of-the-art proof assistant, like Coq. We evaluate the system on all sections of the FraCaS test suite, excluding section 6. This is the first system that does a complete run on the anaphora and ellipsis sections of the FraCaS. It has a better overall accuracy than any previous system.
We investigate different ensemble learning techniques for neural morphological inflection using bidirectional LSTM encoder-decoder models with attention. We experiment with weighted and unweighted majority voting and bagging. We find that all investigated ensemble methods lead to improved accuracy over a baseline of a single model. However, contrary to expectation based on earlier work by Najafi et al. (2018) and Silfverberg et al. (2017), weighting does not deliver clear benefits. Bagging was found to underperform plain voting ensembles in general.
Lemmatization, finding the basic morphological form of a word in a corpus, is an important step in many natural language processing tasks when working with morphologically rich languages. We describe and evaluate Nefnir, a new open source lemmatizer for Icelandic. Nefnir uses suffix substitution rules, derived from a large morphological database, to lemmatize tagged text. Evaluation shows that for correctly tagged text, Nefnir obtains an accuracy of 99.55{\%}, and for text tagged with a PoS tagger, the accuracy obtained is 96.88{\%}.
Social science researchers often use text as the raw data in investigations: for instance, when investigating the effects of IMF policies on the development of countries under IMF programs, researchers typically encode structured descriptions of the programs using a time-consuming manual effort. Making this process automatic may open up new opportunities in scaling up such investigations. As a first step towards automatizing this coding process, we describe an experiment where we apply a sentence classifier that automatically detects mentions of policy conditions in IMF loan agreements and divides them into different types. The results show that the classifier is generally able to detect the policy conditions, although some types are hard to distinguish.
In this paper, we present a prototype for an online exercise aimed at learners of English and Swedish that serves multiple purposes. The exercise allows learners of the aforementioned languages to train their knowledge of particle verbs receiving clues from the exercise application. The user themselves decide which clue to receive and pay in virtual currency for each, which provides us with valuable information about the utility of the clues that we provide as well as the learners willingness to trade virtual currency versus accuracy of their choice. As resources, we use list with annotated levels from the proficiency scale defined by the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR) and a multilingual corpus with syntactic dependency relations and word annotation for all language pairs. From the latter resource, we extract translation equivalents for particle verb construction together with a list of parallel corpus examples that can be used as clues in the exercise.
In this paper we present a new method to learn a model robust to typos for a Named Entity Recognition task. Our improvement over existing methods helps the model to take into account the context of the sentence inside a justice decision in order to recognize an entity with a typo. We used state-of-the-art models and enriched the last layer of the neural network with high-level information linked with the potential of the word to be a certain type of entity. More precisely, we utilized the similarities between the word and the potential entity candidates the tagged sentence context. The experiments on a dataset of french justice decisions show a reduction of the relative F1-score error of 32{\%}, upgrading the score obtained with the most competitive fine-tuned state-of-the-art system from 94.85{\%} to 96.52{\%}.
In this paper, we present a Bayesian approach to natural language semantics. Our main focus is on the inference task in an environment where judgments require probabilistic reasoning. We treat nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc. as unary predicates, and we model them as boxes in a bounded domain. We apply Bayesian learning to satisfy constraints expressed as premises. In this way we construct a model, by specifying boxes for the predicates. The probability of the hypothesis (the conclusion) is evaluated against the model that incorporates the premises as constraints.
This paper introduces language processing resources and tools for Bornholmsk, a language spoken on the island of Bornholm, with roots in Danish and closely related to Scanian. This presents an overview of the language and available data, and the first NLP models for this living, minority Nordic language. Sammenfattnijng p{\aa
Endangered Uralic languages present a high variety of inflectional forms in their morphology. This results in a high number of homonyms in inflections, which introduces a lot of morphological ambiguity in sentences. Previous research has employed constraint grammars to address this problem, however CGs are often unable to fully disambiguate a sentence, and their development is labour intensive. We present an LSTM based model for automatically ranking morphological readings of sentences based on their quality. This ranking can be used to evaluate the existing CG disambiguators or to directly morphologically disambiguate sentences. Our approach works on a morphological abstraction and it can be trained with a very small dataset.
This paper describes an evaluation of five data-driven part-of-speech (PoS) taggers for spoken Norwegian. The taggers all rely on different machine learning mechanisms: decision trees, hidden Markov models (HMMs), conditional random fields (CRFs), long-short term memory networks (LSTMs), and convolutional neural networks (CNNs). We go into some of the challenges posed by the task of tagging spoken, as opposed to written, language, and in particular a wide range of dialects as is found in the recordings of the LIA (Language Infrastructure made Accessible) project. The results show that the taggers based on either conditional random fields or neural networks perform much better than the rest, with the LSTM tagger getting the highest score.
We report on work in progress which consists of annotating an Icelandic corpus for named entities (NEs) and using it for training a named entity recognizer based on a Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory model. Currently, we have annotated 7,538 NEs appearing in the first 200,000 tokens of a 1 million token corpus, MIM-GOLD, originally developed for serving as a gold standard for part-of-speech tagging. Our best performing model, trained on this subset of MIM-GOLD, and enriched with external word embeddings, obtains an overall F1 score of 81.3{\%} when categorizing NEs into the following four categories: persons, locations, organizations and miscellaneous. Our preliminary results are promising, especially given the fact that 80{\%} of MIM-GOLD has not yet been used for training.
Named Entity Recognition (NER) has greatly advanced by the introduction of deep neural architectures. However, the success of these methods depends on large amounts of training data. The scarcity of publicly-available human-labeled datasets has resulted in limited evaluation of existing NER systems, as is the case for Danish. This paper studies the effectiveness of cross-lingual transfer for Danish, evaluates its complementarity to limited gold data, and sheds light on performance of Danish NER.
The use of a linking element between compound members is a common phenomenon in Germanic languages. Still, the exact use and conditioning of such elements is a disputed topic in linguistics. In this paper we address the issue of predicting the use of linking elements in Danish. Following previous research that shows how the choice of linking element might be conditioned by phonology, we frame the problem as a language modeling task: Considering the linking elements -s/-∅ the problem becomes predicting what is most probable to encounter next, a syllable boundary or the joining element, {`}s{'}. We show that training a language model on this task reaches an accuracy of 94 {\%}, and in the case of an unsupervised model, the accuracy reaches 80{\%}.
This article is a report from an ongoing project aiming at analyzing lexical and grammatical competences of Swedish as a Second language (L2). To facilitate lexical analysis, we need access to metalinguistic information about relevant vocabulary that L2 learners can use and understand. The focus of the current article is on the lexical annotation of the vocabulary scope for a range of lexicographical aspects, such as morphological analysis, valency, types of multi-word units, etc. We perform parts of the analysis automatically, and other parts manually. The rationale behind this is that where there is no possibility to add information automatically, manual effort needs to be added. To facilitate the latter, a tool LEGATO has been designed, implemented and currently put to active testing.
This paper presents a flexible and powerful system for creating parallel corpora and for running neural machine translation services. Our package provides a scalable data repository backend that offers transparent data pre-processing pipelines and automatic alignment procedures that facilitate the compilation of extensive parallel data sets from a variety of sources. Moreover, we develop a web-based interface that constitutes an intuitive frontend for end-users of the platform. The whole system can easily be distributed over virtual machines and implements a sophisticated permission system with secure connections and a flexible database for storing arbitrary metadata. Furthermore, we also provide an interface for neural machine translation that can run as a service on virtual machines, which also incorporates a connection to the data repository software.
We present a new method for preparing a lexical-phonetic database as a resource for acoustic model training. The research is an offshoot of the ongoing Project Ravnur (Speech Recognition for Faroese), but the method is language-independent. At NODALIDA 2019 we demonstrate the method (called SHARP) online, showing how a traditional lexical-phonetic dictionary (with a very rich phone inventory) is transformed into an ASR-friendly database (with reduced phonetics, preventing data sparseness). The mapping procedure is informed by a corpus of speech transcripts. We conclude with a discussion on the benefits of a well-thought-out BLARK design (Basic Language Resource Kit), making tools like SHARP possible.
The availability of user-generated content has increased significantly over time. Wikipedia is one example of a corpora which spans a huge range of topics and is freely available. Storing and processing these corpora requires flexible documents models as they may contain malicious and incorrect data. Docria is a library which attempts to address this issue by providing a solution which can be used with small to large corpora, from laptops using Python interactively in a Jupyter notebook to clusters running map-reduce frameworks with optimized compiled code. Docria is available as open-source code.
This paper describes the design and use of the graph-based parsing framework and toolkit UniParse, released as an open-source python software package. UniParse as a framework novelly streamlines research prototyping, development and evaluation of graph-based dependency parsing architectures. UniParse does this by enabling highly efficient, sufficiently independent, easily readable, and easily extensible implementations for all dependency parser components. We distribute the toolkit with ready-made configurations as re-implementations of all current state-of-the-art first-order graph-based parsers, including even more efficient Cython implementations of both encoders and decoders, as well as the required specialised loss functions.
We present two pieces of interlocking technology in development to facilitate communitybased, collaborative language description and documentation: (i) a mobile app where speakers submit text, voice recordings and/or videos, and (ii) a community language portal that organizes submitted data and provides question/answer boards whereby community members can evaluate/supplement submissions. 
Application software has the potential to greatly reduce the amount of human labor needed in common language documentation tasks. But despite great advances in the maturity of tools available for apps, language documentation apps have not attained their full potential, and language documentation projects are forgoing apps in favor of less specialized tools like paper and spreadsheets. We argue that this is due to the scarcity of software development labor in language documentation, and that a careful choice of software development tools could make up for this labor shortage by increasing developer productivity. We demonstrate the beneﬁts of strategic tool choice by reimplementing a subset of the popular linguistic annotation app ELAN using tools carefully selected for their potential to minimize developer labor. 
To reduce the annotation burden placed on linguistic ﬁeldworkers, freeing up time for deeper linguistic analysis and descriptive work, the language documentation community has been working with machine learning researchers to investigate what assistive role technology can play, with promising early results. This paper describes a number of potential followup technical projects that we believe would be worthwhile and straightforward to do. We provide examples of the annotation tasks for computer scientists; descriptions of the technological challenges involved and the estimated level of complexity; and pointers to relevant literature. We hope providing a clear overview of what the needs are and what annotation challenges exist will help facilitate the dialogue and collaboration between computer scientists and ﬁeldwork linguists. 
We introduce ocreval, a port of the ISRI OCR Evaluation Tools, now with Unicode support. We describe how we upgraded the ISRI OCR Evaluation Tools to support modern text processing tasks. ocreval supports producing character-level and word-level accuracy reports, supporting all characters representable in the UTF-8 character encoding scheme. In addition, we have implemented the Unicode default word boundary specification in order to support word-level accuracy reports for a broad range of writing systems. We argue that character-level and word-level accuracy reports produce confusion matrices that are useful for tasks beyond OCR evaluation— including tasks supporting the study and computational modeling of endangered languages. 
We approach the problem of expanding the set of cognate relations with a sequence-tosequence NMT model. The language pair of interest, Skolt Sami and North Sami, has too limited a set of parallel data for an NMT model as such. We solve this problem on the one hand, by training the model with North Sami cognates with other Uralic languages and, on the other, by generating more synthetic training data with an SMT model. The cognates found using our method are made publicly available in the Online Dictionary of Uralic Languages. 
Communities of lesser resourced languages like North Sámi beneﬁt from language tools such as spell checkers and grammar checkers to improve literacy. Accurate error feedback is dependent on well-tokenised input, but traditional tokenisation as shallow preprocessing is inadequate to solve the challenges of realworld language usage. We present an alternative where tokenisation remains ambiguous until we have linguistic context information available. This lets us accurately detect sentence boundaries, multiwords and compound error detection. We describe a North Sámi grammar checker with such a tokenisation system, and show the results of its evaluation. 
Lexicography and corpus studies of grammar have a long history of fruitful interaction. For the most part, however, this has been a oneway relationship. Lexicographers have extensively used corpora to identify previously undetected word senses or ﬁnd natural usage examples; using lexicographic materials when conducting data-driven investigations of grammar, on the other hand, is hardly commonplace. In this paper, I present a Beserman Udmurt corpus made out of “artiﬁcial” dictionary examples. I argue that, although such a corpus can not be used for certain kinds of corpusbased research, it is nevertheless a very useful tool for writing a reference grammar of a language. This is particularly important in the case of underresourced endangered varieties, which Beserman is, because of the scarcity of available corpus data. The paper describes the process of developing the Beserman usage example corpus, explores its differences compared to traditional text corpora, and discusses how those can be beneﬁcial for grammar research. 
This paper discusses the development and evaluation of a Speech Synthesizer for Plains Cree, an Algonquian language of North America. Synthesis is achieved using Simple4All and evaluation was performed using a modiﬁed Cluster Identiﬁcation, Semantically Unpredictable Sentence, and a basic dichotomized judgment task. Resulting synthesis was not well received; however, observations regarding the process of speech synthesis evaluation in North American indigenous communities were made: chieﬂy, that tolerance for variation is often much lower in these communities than for majority languages. The evaluator did not recognize grammatically consistent but semantically nonsense strings as licit language. As a result, monosyllabic clusters and semantically unpredictable sentences proved not the most appropriate evaluate tools. Alternative evaluation methods are discussed. 
This paper describes a weighted ﬁnite-state morphological transducer for Crimean Tatar able to analyse and generate in both Latin and Cyrillic orthographies. This transducer was developed by a team including a community member and language expert, a ﬁeld linguist who works with the community, a Turkologist with computational linguistics expertise, and an experienced computational linguist with Turkic expertise. Dealing with two orthographic systems in the same transducer is challenging as they employ diﬀerent strategies to deal with the spelling of loan words and encode the full range of the language’s phonemes and their interaction. We develop the core transducer using the Latin orthography and then design a separate transliteration transducer to map the surface forms to Cyrillic. To help control the non-determinism in the orthographic mapping, we use weights to prioritise forms seen in the corpus. We perform an evaluation of all components of the system, ﬁnding an accuracy above 90% for morphological analysis and near 90% for orthographic conversion. This comprises the state of the art for Crimean Tatar morphological modelling, and, to our knowledge, is the ﬁrst biscriptual single morphological transducer for any language. 
Neural encoder-decoder models are usually applied to morphology learning as an end-toend process without considering the underlying phonological representations that linguists posit as abstract forms before morphophonological rules are applied. Finite State Transducers for morphology, on the other hand, are developed to contain these underlying forms as an intermediate representation. This paper shows that training a bidirectional two-step encoder-decoder model of Arapaho verbs to learn two separate mappings between tags and abstract morphemes and morphemes and surface allomorphs improves results when training data is limited to 10,000 to 30,000 examples of inﬂected word forms. 
Morphological analysis is a critical enabling technology for polysynthetic languages. We present a neural morphological analyzer for case-inﬂected nouns in St. Lawrence Island Yupik, an endangered polysythetic language in the Inuit-Yupik language family, treating morphological analysis as a recurrent neural sequence-to-sequence task. By utilizing an existing ﬁnite-state morphological analyzer to create training data, we improve analysis coverage on attested Yupik word types from approximately 75% for the existing ﬁnite-state analyzer to 100% for the neural analyzer. At the same time, we achieve a substantially higher level of accuracy on a held-out testing set, from 78.9% accuracy for the ﬁnite-state analyzer to 92.2% accuracy for our neural analyzer. 
Open domain dialog systems face the challenge of being repetitive and producing generic responses. In this paper, we demonstrate that by conditioning the response generation on interpretable discrete dialog attributes and composed attributes, it helps improve the model perplexity and results in diverse and interesting non-redundant responses. We propose to formulate the dialog attribute prediction as a reinforcement learning (RL) problem and use policy gradients methods to optimize utterance generation using long-term rewards. Unlike existing RL approaches which formulate the token prediction as a policy, our method reduces the complexity of the policy optimization by limiting the action space to dialog attributes, thereby making the policy optimization more practical and sample efficient. We demonstrate this with experimental and human evaluations.
Learning suitable and well-performing dialogue behaviour in statistical spoken dialogue systems has been in the focus of research for many years. While most work which is based on reinforcement learning employs an objective measure like task success for modelling the reward signal, we use a reward based on user satisfaction estimation. We propose a novel estimator and show that it outperforms all previous estimators while learning temporal dependencies implicitly. Furthermore, we apply this novel user satisfaction estimation model live in simulated experiments where the satisfaction estimation model is trained on one domain and applied in many other domains which cover a similar task. We show that applying this model results in higher estimated satisfaction, similar task success rates and a higher robustness to noise.
Dialogue systems are increasingly using knowledge bases (KBs) storing real-world facts to help generate quality responses. However, as the KBs are inherently incomplete and remain fixed during conversation, it limits dialogue systems{'} ability to answer questions and to handle questions involving entities or relations that are not in the KB. In this paper, we make an attempt to propose an engine for Continuous and Interactive Learning of Knowledge (CILK) for dialogue systems to give them the ability to continuously and interactively learn and infer new knowledge during conversations. With more knowledge accumulated over time, they will be able to learn better and answer more questions. Our empirical evaluation shows that CILK is promising.
Learning with minimal data is one of the key challenges in the development of practical, production-ready goal-oriented dialogue systems. In a real-world enterprise setting where dialogue systems are developed rapidly and are expected to work robustly for an ever-growing variety of domains, products, and scenarios, efficient learning from a limited number of examples becomes indispensable. In this paper, we introduce a technique to achieve state-of-the-art dialogue generation performance in a few-shot setup, without using any annotated data. We do this by leveraging background knowledge from a larger, more highly represented dialogue source {---} namely, the MetaLWOz dataset. We evaluate our model on the Stanford Multi-Domain Dialogue Dataset, consisting of human-human goal-oriented dialogues in in-car navigation, appointment scheduling, and weather information domains. We show that our few-shot approach achieves state-of-the art results on that dataset by consistently outperforming the previous best model in terms of BLEU and Entity F1 scores, while being more data-efficient than it by not requiring any data annotation.
Dialogue state tracking is an important component in task-oriented dialogue systems to identify users{'} goals and requests as a dialogue proceeds. However, as most previous models are dependent on dialogue slots, the model complexity soars when the number of slots increases. In this paper, we put forward a slot-independent neural model (SIM) to track dialogue states while keeping the model complexity invariant to the number of dialogue slots. The model utilizes attention mechanisms between user utterance and system actions. SIM achieves state-of-the-art results on WoZ and DSTC2 tasks, with only 20{\%} of the model size of previous models.
With the advent of conversational assistants, like Amazon Alexa, Google Now, etc., dialogue systems are gaining a lot of traction, especially in industrial setting. These systems typically consist of Spoken Language understanding component which, in turn, consists of two tasks - Intent Classification (IC) and Slot Labeling (SL). Generally, these two tasks are modeled together jointly to achieve best performance. However, this joint modeling adds to model obfuscation. In this work, we first design framework for a modularization of joint IC-SL task to enhance architecture transparency. Then, we explore a number of self-attention, convolutional, and recurrent models, contributing a large-scale analysis of modeling paradigms for IC+SL across two datasets. Finally, using this framework, we propose a class of {`}label-recurrent{'} models that otherwise non-recurrent, with a 10-dimensional representation of the label history, and show that our proposed systems are easy to interpret, highly accurate (achieving over 30{\%} error reduction in SL over the state-of-the-art on the Snips dataset), as well as fast, at 2x the inference and 2/3 to 1/2 the training time of comparable recurrent models, thus giving an edge in critical real-world systems.
In a spoken dialogue system, dialogue state tracker (DST) components track the state of the conversation by updating a distribution of values associated with each of the slots being tracked for the current user turn, using the interactions until then. Much of the previous work has relied on modeling the natural order of the conversation, using distance based offsets as an approximation of time. In this work, we hypothesize that leveraging the wall-clock temporal difference between turns is crucial for finer-grained control of dialogue scenarios. We develop a novel approach that applies a time mask, based on the wall-clock time difference, to the associated slot embeddings and empirically demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms existing approaches that leverage distance offsets, on both an internal benchmark dataset as well as DSTC2.
In this paper, we explore state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning methods for dialog policy training such as prioritized experience replay, double deep Q-Networks, dueling network architectures and distributional learning. Our main findings show that each individual method improves the rewards and the task success rate but combining these methods in a Rainbow agent, which performs best across tasks and environments, is a non-trivial task. We, therefore, provide insights about the influence of each method on the combination and how to combine them to form a Rainbow agent.
Utterance-level analysis of the speaker{'}s intentions and emotions is a core task in conversational understanding. Depending on the end objective of the conversational understanding task, different categorical dialog-act or affect labels are expertly designed to cover specific aspects of the speakers{'} intentions or emotions respectively. Accurately annotating with these labels requires a high level of human expertise, and thus applying this process to a large conversation corpus or new domains is prohibitively expensive. The resulting paucity of data limits the use of sophisticated neural models. In this paper, we tackle these limitations by performing unsupervised training of utterance representations from a large corpus of spontaneous dialogue data. Models initialized with these representations achieve competitive performance on utterance-level dialogue-act recognition and emotion classification, especially in low-resource settings encountered when analyzing conversations in new domains.
Dialogue state tracking requires the population and maintenance of a multi-slot frame representation of the dialogue state. Frequently, dialogue state tracking systems assume independence between slot values within a frame. In this paper we argue that treating the prediction of each slot value as an independent prediction task may ignore important associations between the slot values, and, consequently, we argue that treating dialogue state tracking as a structured prediction problem can help to improve dialogue state tracking performance. To support this argument, the research presented in this paper is structured into three stages: (i) analyzing variable dependencies in dialogue data; (ii) applying an energy-based methodology to model dialogue state tracking as a structured prediction task; and (iii) evaluating the impact of inter-slot relationships on model performance. Overall we demonstrate that modelling the associations between target slots with an energy-based formalism improves dialogue state tracking performance in a number of ways.
Slot filling is a core operation for utterance understanding in task-oriented dialogue systems. Slots are typically domain-specific, and adding new domains to a dialogue system involves data and time-intensive processes. A popular technique to address the problem is transfer learning, where it is assumed the availability of a large slot filling dataset for the source domain, to be used to help slot filling on the target domain, with fewer data. In this work, instead, we propose to leverage source tasks based on semantically related non-conversational resources (e.g., semantic sequence tagging datasets), as they are both cheaper to obtain and reusable to several slot filling domains. We show that using auxiliary non-conversational tasks in a multi-task learning setup consistently improves low resource slot filling performance.
Some of the major challenges in training conversational agents include the lack of large-scale data of real-world complexity, defining appropriate evaluation measures, and managing meaningful conversations across many topics over long periods of time. Moreover, most works tend to assume that the conversational agent{'}s environment is stationary, a somewhat strong assumption. To remove this assumption and overcome the lack of data, we take a step away from the traditional training pipeline and model the conversation as a stochastic collaborative game. Each agent (player) has a role ({``}assistant{''}, {``}tourist{''}, {``}eater{''}, etc.) and their own objectives, and can only interact via language they generate. Each agent, therefore, needs to learn to operate optimally in an environment with multiple sources of uncertainty (its own LU and LG, the other agent{'}s LU, Policy, and LG). In this work, we present the first complete attempt at concurrently training conversational agents that communicate only via self-generated language and show that they outperform supervised and deep learning baselines.
While there has been much work in the language learning and assessment literature on human and automated scoring of essays and short constructed responses, there is little to no work examining text features for scoring of dialog data, particularly interactional aspects thereof, to assess conversational proficiency over and above constructed response skills. Our work bridges this gap by investigating both human and automated approaches towards scoring human{--}machine text dialog in the context of a real-world language learning application. We collected conversational data of human learners interacting with a cloud-based standards-compliant dialog system, triple-scored these data along multiple dimensions of conversational proficiency, and then analyzed the performance trends. We further examined two different approaches to automated scoring of such data and show that these approaches are able to perform at or above par with human agreement for a majority of dimensions of the scoring rubric.
We present a spoken conversational question answering proof of concept that is able to answer questions about general knowledge from Wikidata. The dialogue agent does not only orchestrate various agents but also solve coreferences and ellipsis.
We present Graph2Bots, a tool for assisting conversational agent designers. It extracts a graph representation from human-human conversations by using unsupervised learning. The generated graph contains the main stages of the dialogue and their inner transitions. The graphical user interface (GUI) then allows graph editing.
We demo a chatbot that delivers content in the form of virtual dialogues automatically produced from plain texts extracted and selected from documents. This virtual dialogue content is provided in the form of answers derived from the found and selected documents split into fragments, and questions are automatically generated for these answers.
Recent advances in neural sequence-to-sequence models have led to promising results for several language generation-based tasks, including dialogue response generation, summarization, and machine translation. However, these models are known to have several problems, especially in the context of chit-chat based dialogue systems: they tend to generate short and dull responses that are often too generic. Furthermore, these models do not ground conversational responses on knowledge and facts, resulting in turns that are not accurate, informative and engaging for the users. In this paper, we propose and experiment with a series of response generation models that aim to serve in the general scenario where in addition to the dialogue context, relevant unstructured external knowledge in the form of text is also assumed to be available for models to harness. Our proposed approach extends pointer-generator networks (See et al., 2017) by allowing the decoder to hierarchically attend and copy from external knowledge in addition to the dialogue context. We empirically show the effectiveness of the proposed model compared to several baselines including (Ghazvininejadet al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2018) through both automatic evaluation metrics and human evaluation on ConvAI2 dataset.
Learning an efficient manager of dialogue agent from data with little manual intervention is important, especially for goal-oriented dialogues. However, existing methods either take too many manual efforts (e.g. reinforcement learning methods) or cannot guarantee the dialogue efficiency (e.g. sequence-to-sequence methods). In this paper, we address this problem by proposing a novel end-to-end learning model to train a dialogue agent that can look ahead for several future turns and generate an optimal response to make the dialogue efficient. Our method is data-driven and does not require too much manual work for intervention during system design. We evaluate our method on two datasets of different scenarios and the experimental results demonstrate the efficiency of our model.
Although the data-driven approaches of some recent bot building platforms make it possible for a wide range of users to easily create dialogue systems, those platforms don{'}t offer tools for quickly identifying which log dialogues contain problems. This is important since corrections to log dialogues provide a means to improve performance after deployment. A log dialogue ranker, which ranks problematic dialogues higher, is an essential tool due to the sheer volume of log dialogues that could be generated. However, training a ranker typically requires labelling a substantial amount of data, which is not feasible for most users. In this paper, we present a novel unsupervised approach for dialogue ranking using GANs and release a corpus of labelled dialogues for evaluation and comparison with supervised methods. The evaluation result shows that our method compares favorably to supervised methods without any labelled data.
Domain adaptation in natural language generation (NLG) remains challenging because of the high complexity of input semantics across domains and limited data of a target domain. This is particularly the case for dialogue systems, where we want to be able to seamlessly include new domains into the conversation. Therefore, it is crucial for generation models to share knowledge across domains for the effective adaptation from one domain to another. In this study, we exploit a tree-structured semantic encoder to capture the internal structure of complex semantic representations required for multi-domain dialogues in order to facilitate knowledge sharing across domains. In addition, a layer-wise attention mechanism between the tree encoder and the decoder is adopted to further improve the model{'}s capability. The automatic evaluation results show that our model outperforms previous methods in terms of the BLEU score and the slot error rate, in particular when the adaptation data is limited. In subjective evaluation, human judges tend to prefer the sentences generated by our model, rating them more highly on informativeness and naturalness than other systems.
Neural dialog models have exhibited strong performance, however their end-to-end nature lacks a representation of the explicit structure of dialog. This results in a loss of generalizability, controllability and a data-hungry nature. Conversely, more traditional dialog systems do have strong models of explicit structure. This paper introduces several approaches for explicitly incorporating structure into neural models of dialog. Structured Fusion Networks first learn neural dialog modules corresponding to the structured components of traditional dialog systems and then incorporate these modules in a higher-level generative model. Structured Fusion Networks obtain strong results on the MultiWOZ dataset, both with and without reinforcement learning. Structured Fusion Networks are shown to have several valuable properties, including better domain generalizability, improved performance in reduced data scenarios and robustness to divergence during reinforcement learning.
This paper proposes a novel end-to-end architecture for task-oriented dialogue systems. It is based on a simple and practical yet very effective sequence-to-sequence approach, where language understanding and state tracking tasks are modeled jointly with a structured copy-augmented sequential decoder and a multi-label decoder for each slot. The policy engine and language generation tasks are modeled jointly following that. The copy-augmented sequential decoder deals with new or unknown values in the conversation, while the multi-label decoder combined with the sequential decoder ensures the explicit assignment of values to slots. On the generation part, slot binary classifiers are used to improve performance. This architecture is scalable to real-world scenarios and is shown through an empirical evaluation to achieve state-of-the-art performance on both the Cambridge Restaurant dataset and the Stanford in-car assistant dataset.
This paper presents FriendsQA, a challenging question answering dataset that contains 1,222 dialogues and 10,610 open-domain questions, to tackle machine comprehension on everyday conversations. Each dialogue, involving multiple speakers, is annotated with several types of questions regarding the dialogue contexts, and the answers are annotated with certain spans in the dialogue. A series of crowdsourcing tasks are conducted to ensure good annotation quality, resulting a high inter-annotator agreement of 81.82{\%}. A comprehensive annotation analytics is provided for a deeper understanding in this dataset. Three state-of-the-art QA systems are experimented, R-Net, QANet, and BERT, and evaluated on this dataset. BERT in particular depicts promising results, an accuracy of 74.2{\%} for answer utterance selection and an F1-score of 64.2{\%} for answer span selection, suggesting that the FriendsQA task is hard yet has a great potential of elevating QA research on multiparty dialogue to another level.
In this paper, we examine the foundations of task-oriented dialogues, in which systems are requested to perform tasks for humans. We argue that the way this dialogue task has been framed has limited its applicability to processing simple requests with atomic {``}slot-fillers{''}. However, real task-oriented dialogues can contain more complex utterances that provide non-atomic constraints on slot values. For example, in response to the system{'}s question {``}What time do you want me to reserve the restaurant?{''}, a user should be able to say {``}the earliest time available,{''} which cannot be handled by classic {``}intent + slots{''} approaches that do not incorporate expressive logical form meaning representations. Furthermore, situations for which it would be desirable to build task-oriented dialogue systems, e.g., to engage in mixed-initiative, collaborative or multiparty dialogues, will require a more general approach. In order to overcome these limitations and to provide such an approach, we give a logical analysis of the {``}intent+slot{''} dialogue setting using a modal logic of intention and including a more expansive notion of {``}dialogue state{''}. Finally, we briefly discuss our program of research to build a next generation of plan-based dialogue systems that goes beyond {``}intent + slots{''}.
Humans use a variety of approaches to reference objects in the external world, including verbal descriptions, hand and head gestures, eye gaze or any combination of them. The amount of useful information from each modality, however, may vary depending on the specific person and on several other factors. For this reason, it is important to learn the correct combination of inputs for inferring the best-fitting reference. In this paper, we investigate appropriate speaker-dependent and independent fusion strategies in a multimodal reference resolution task. We show that without any change in the modality models, only through an optimized fusion technique, it is possible to reduce the error rate of the system on a reference resolution task by more than 50{\%}.
Understanding and conversing about dynamic scenes is one of the key capabilities of AI agents that navigate the environment and convey useful information to humans. Video question answering is a specific scenario of such AI-human interaction where an agent generates a natural language response to a question regarding the video of a dynamic scene. Incorporating features from multiple modalities, which often provide supplementary information, is one of the challenging aspects of video question answering. Furthermore, a question often concerns only a small segment of the video, hence encoding the entire video sequence using a recurrent neural network is not computationally efficient. Our proposed question-guided video representation module efficiently generates the token-level video summary guided by each word in the question. The learned representations are then fused with the question to generate the answer. Through empirical evaluation on the Audio Visual Scene-aware Dialog (AVSD) dataset, our proposed models in single-turn and multi-turn question answering achieve state-of-the-art performance on several automatic natural language generation evaluation metrics.
Automatically classifying the relation between sentences in a discourse is a challenging task, in particular when there is no overt expression of the relation. It becomes even more challenging by the fact that annotated training data exists only for a small number of languages, such as English and Chinese. We present a new system using zero-shot transfer learning for implicit discourse relation classification, where the only resource used for the target language is unannotated parallel text. This system is evaluated on the discourse-annotated TED-MDB parallel corpus, where it obtains good results for all seven languages using only English training data.
Patients with chronic conditions like heart failure are the most likely to be re-hospitalized. One step towards avoiding re-hospitalization is to devise strategies for motivating patients to take care of their own health. In this paper, we perform a quantitative analysis of patients{'} narratives of their experience with heart failure and explore the different topics that patients talk about. We compare two different groups of patients- those unable to take charge of their illness, and those who make efforts to improve their health. We will use the findings from our analysis to refine and personalize the summaries of hospitalizations that our system automatically generates.
Prior work on temporal relation classification has focused extensively on event pairs in the same or adjacent sentences (local), paying scant attention to discourse-level (global) pairs. This restricts the ability of systems to learn temporal links between global pairs, since reliance on local syntactic features suffices to achieve reasonable performance on existing datasets. However, systems should be capable of incorporating cues from document-level structure to assign temporal relations. In this work, we take a first step towards discourse-level temporal ordering by creating TDDiscourse, the first dataset focusing specifically on temporal links between event pairs which are more than one sentence apart. We create TDDiscourse by augmenting TimeBank-Dense, a corpus of English news articles, manually annotating global pairs that cannot be inferred automatically from existing annotations. Our annotations double the number of temporal links in TimeBank-Dense, while possessing several desirable properties such as focusing on long-distance pairs and not being automatically inferable. We adapt and benchmark the performance of three state-of-the-art models on TDDiscourse and observe that existing systems indeed find discourse-level temporal ordering harder.
It is often hard to apply the newest advances in research to real life scenarios. They usually require the resolution of some specific task applied to a restricted domain, all the while providing small amounts of data to begin with. In this study we apply one of the newest innovations in Deep Learning to a task of text classification. We created a question answering system in Italian that provides information about a specific subject, e-invoicing and digital billing. Italy recently introduced a new legislation about e-invoicing and people have some legit doubts, therefore a large share of professionals could benefit from this tool.
We present a new neural architecture for wide-coverage Natural Language Understanding in Spoken Dialogue Systems. We develop a hierarchical multi-task architecture, which delivers a multi-layer representation of sentence meaning (i.e., Dialogue Acts and Frame-like structures). The architecture is a hierarchy of self-attention mechanisms and BiLSTM encoders followed by CRF tagging layers. We describe a variety of experiments, showing that our approach obtains promising results on a dataset annotated with Dialogue Acts and Frame Semantics. Moreover, we demonstrate its applicability to a different, publicly available NLU dataset annotated with domain-specific intents and corresponding semantic roles, providing overall performance higher than state-of-the-art tools such as RASA, Dialogflow, LUIS, and Watson. For example, we show an average 4.45{\%} improvement in entity tagging F-score over Rasa, Dialogflow and LUIS.
Dialog state tracking is used to estimate the current belief state of a dialog given all the preceding conversation. Machine reading comprehension, on the other hand, focuses on building systems that read passages of text and answer questions that require some understanding of passages. We formulate dialog state tracking as a reading comprehension task to answer the question what is the state of the current dialog? after reading conversational context. In contrast to traditional state tracking methods where the dialog state is often predicted as a distribution over a closed set of all the possible slot values within an ontology, our method uses a simple attention-based neural network to point to the slot values within the conversation. Experiments on MultiWOZ-2.0 cross-domain dialog dataset show that our simple system can obtain similar accuracies compared to the previous more complex methods. By exploiting recent advances in contextual word embeddings, adding a model that explicitly tracks whether a slot value should be carried over to the next turn, and combining our method with a traditional joint state tracking method that relies on closed set vocabulary, we can obtain a joint-goal accuracy of 47.33{\%} on the standard test split, exceeding current state-of-the-art by 11.75{\%}**.
Acoustic addressee detection (AD) is a modern paralinguistic and dialogue challenge that especially arises in voice assistants. In the present study, we distinguish addressees in two settings (a conversation between several people and a spoken dialogue system, and a conversation between several adults and a child) and introduce the first competitive baseline (unweighted average recall equals 0.891) for the Voice Assistant Conversation Corpus that models the first setting. We jointly solve both classification problems, using three models: a linear support vector machine dealing with acoustic functionals and two neural networks utilising raw waveforms alongside with acoustic low-level descriptors. We investigate how different corpora influence each other, applying the mixup approach to data augmentation. We also study the influence of various acoustic context lengths on AD. Two-second speech fragments turn out to be sufficient for reliable AD. Mixup is shown to be beneficial for merging acoustic data (extracted features but not raw waveforms) from different domains that allows us to reach a higher classification performance on human-machine AD and also for training a multipurpose neural network that is capable of solving both human-machine and adult-child AD problems.
Pitch has long been held as an important signalling channel when planning and deploying speech in conversation, and myriad studies have been undertaken to determine the extent to which it actually plays this role. Unfortunately, these studies have required considerable human investment in data preparation and analysis, and have therefore often been limited to a handful of specific conversational contexts. The current article proposes a framework which addresses these limitations, by enabling a scalable, quantitative characterization of the role of pitch throughout an entire conversation, requiring only the raw signal and speech activity references. The framework is evaluated on the Switchboard dialogue corpus. Experiments indicate that pitch trajectories of both parties are predictive of their incipient speech activity; that pitch should be expressed on a logarithmic scale and Z-normalized, as well as accompanied by a binary voicing variable; and that only the most recent 400 ms of the pitch trajectory are useful in incipient speech activity prediction.
This study tests the effect of cognitive-emotional expression in an Alexa text-to-speech (TTS) voice on users{'} experience with a social dialog system. We systematically introduced emotionally expressive interjections (e.g., {``}Wow!{''}) and filler words (e.g., {``}um{''}, {``}mhmm{''}) in an Amazon Alexa Prize socialbot, Gunrock. We tested whether these TTS manipulations improved users{'} ratings of their conversation across thousands of real user interactions (n=5,527). Results showed that interjections and fillers each improved users{'} holistic ratings, an improvement that further increased if the system used both manipulations. A separate perception experiment corroborated the findings from the user study, with improved social ratings for conversations including interjections; however, no positive effect was observed for fillers, suggesting that the role of the rater in the conversation{---}as active participant or external listener{---}is an important factor in assessing social dialogs.
We describe a longitudinal user study conducted in the context of a Spoken Dialogue System for a household robot, where we examined the influence of time displacement and situational risk on users{'} preferred responses. To this effect, we employed a corpus of spoken requests that asked a robot to fetch or move objects in a room. In the first stage of our study, participants selected among four response types to these requests under two risk conditions: low and high. After some time, the same participants rated several responses to the previous requests {---} these responses were instantiated from the four response types. Our results show that participants did not rate highly their own response types; moreover, they rated their own response types similarly to different ones. This suggests that, at least in this context, people{'}s preferences at a particular point in time may not reflect their general attitudes, and that various reasonable response types may be equally acceptable. Our study also reveals that situational risk influences the acceptability of some response types.
The main aim of this paper is to provide a characterization of the response space for questions using a taxonomy grounded in a dialogical formal semantics. As a starting point we take the typology for responses in the form of questions provided in (Lupkowski and Ginzburg, 2016). This work develops a wide coverage taxonomy for question/question sequences observable in corpora including the BNC, CHILDES, and BEE, as well as formal modelling of all the postulated classes. Our aim is to extend this work to cover all responses to questions. We present the extended typology of responses to questions based on a corpus studies of BNC, BEE and Maptask with include 506, 262, and 467 question/response pairs respectively. We compare the data for English with data from Polish using the Spokes corpus (205 question/response pairs). We discuss annotation reliability and disagreement analysis. We sketch how each class can be formalized using a dialogical semantics appropriate for dialogue management.
Despite recent attempts in the field of explainable AI to go beyond black box prediction models, typically already the training data for supervised machine learning is collected in a manner that treats the annotator as a {``}black box{''}, the internal workings of which remains unobserved. We present an annotation method where a task is given to a pair of annotators who collaborate on finding the best response. With this we want to shed light on the questions if the collaboration increases the quality of the responses and if this {``}thinking together{''} provides useful information in itself, as it at least partially reveals their reasoning steps. Furthermore, we expect that this setting puts the focus on explanation as a linguistic act, vs. explainability as a property of models. In a crowd-sourcing experiment, we investigated three different annotation tasks, each in a collaborative dialogical (two annotators) and monological (one annotator) setting. Our results indicate that our experiment elicits collaboration and that this collaboration increases the response accuracy. We see large differences in the annotators{'} behavior depending on the task. Similarly, we also observe that the dialog patterns emerging from the collaboration vary significantly with the task.
In this paper we aim to predict dialogue success and user satisfaction as well as emotion on a turn level. To achieve this, we investigate the use of spectrogram representations, extracted from audio files, in combination with several types of convolutional neural networks. The experiments were performed on the Let{'}s Go V2 database, comprising 5065 audio files and having labels for subjective and objective dialogue turn success, as well as the emotional state of the user. Results show that by using only audio, it is possible to predict turn success with very high accuracy for all three labels (90{\%}). The best performing input representation were 1s long mel-spectrograms in combination with a CNN with a bottleneck architecture. The resulting system has the potential to be used real-time. Our results significantly surpass the state of the art for dialogue success prediction based only on audio.
In dialogue, speakers continuously adapt their speech to accommodate the listener, based on the feedback they receive. In this paper, we explore the modelling of such behaviours in the context of a robot presenting a painting. A Behaviour Tree is used to organise the behaviour on different levels, and allow the robot to adapt its behaviour in real-time; the tree organises engagement, joint attention, turn-taking, feedback and incremental speech processing. An initial implementation of the model is presented, and the system is evaluated in a user study, where the adaptive robot presenter is compared to a non-adaptive version. The adaptive version is found to be more engaging by the users, although no effects are found on the retention of the presented material.
Conversational recommendation has recently attracted significant attention. As systems must understand users{'} preferences, training them has called for conversational corpora, typically derived from task-oriented conversations. We observe that such corpora often do not reflect how people naturally describe preferences. We present a new approach to obtaining user preferences in dialogue: Coached Conversational Preference Elicitation. It allows collection of natural yet structured conversational preferences. Studying the dialogues in one domain, we present a brief quantitative analysis of how people describe movie preferences at scale. Demonstrating the methodology, we release the CCPE-M dataset to the community with over 500 movie preference dialogues expressing over 10,000 preferences.
How should conversational agents respond to verbal abuse through the user? To answer this question, we conduct a large-scale crowd-sourced evaluation of abuse response strategies employed by current state-of-the-art systems. Our results show that some strategies, such as {``}polite refusal{''}, score highly across the board, while for other strategies demographic factors, such as age, as well as the severity of the preceding abuse influence the user{'}s perception of which response is appropriate. In addition, we find that most data-driven models lag behind rule-based or commercial systems in terms of their perceived appropriateness.
Negotiation is a complex activity involving strategic reasoning, persuasion, and psychology. An average person is often far from an expert in negotiation. Our goal is to assist humans to become better negotiators through a machine-in-the-loop approach that combines machine{'}s advantage at data-driven decision-making and human{'}s language generation ability. We consider a bargaining scenario where a seller and a buyer negotiate the price of an item for sale through a text-based dialogue. Our negotiation coach monitors messages between them and recommends strategies in real time to the seller to get a better deal (e.g., {``}reject the proposal and propose a price{''}, {``}talk about your personal experience with the product{''}). The best strategy largely depends on the context (e.g., the current price, the buyer{'}s attitude). Therefore, we first identify a set of negotiation strategies, then learn to predict the best strategy in a given dialogue context from a set of human-human bargaining dialogues. Evaluation on human-human dialogues shows that our coach increases the profits of the seller by almost 60{\%}.
The aim of this paper is to mitigate the shortcomings of automatic evaluation of open-domain dialog systems through multi-reference evaluation. Existing metrics have been shown to correlate poorly with human judgement, particularly in open-domain dialog. One alternative is to collect human annotations for evaluation, which can be expensive and time consuming. To demonstrate the effectiveness of multi-reference evaluation, we augment the test set of DailyDialog with multiple references. A series of experiments show that the use of multiple references results in improved correlation between several automatic metrics and human judgement for both the quality and the diversity of system output.
We present the first complete spoken dialogue system driven by a multiimensional statistical dialogue manager. This framework has been shown to substantially reduce data needs by leveraging domain-independent dimensions, such as social obligations or feedback, which (as we show) can be transferred between domains. In this paper, we conduct a user study and show that the performance of a multi-dimensional system, which can be adapted from a source domain, is equivalent to that of a one-dimensional baseline, which can only be trained from scratch.
We present the results we obtained on the classification of dialogue acts in a corpus of human-human team communication in the domain of robot-assisted disaster response. We annotated dialogue acts according to the ISO 24617-2 standard scheme and carried out experiments using the FastText linear classifier as well as several neural architectures, including feed-forward, recurrent and convolutional neural models with different types of embeddings, context and attention mechanism. The best performance was achieved with a {''}Divide {\&} Merge{''} architecture presented in the paper, using trainable GloVe embeddings and a structured dialogue history. This model learns from the current utterance and the preceding context separately and then combines the two generated representations. Average accuracy of 10-fold cross-validation is 79.8{\%}, F-score 71.8{\%}.
This paper describes the use of Multi-Task Neural Networks (NNs) for system dialogue act selection. These models leverage the representations learned by the Natural Language Understanding (NLU) unit to enable robust initialization/bootstrapping of dialogue policies from medium sized initial data sets. We evaluate the models on two goal-oriented dialogue corpora in the travel booking domain. Results show the proposed models improve over models trained without knowledge of NLU tasks.
We present B. Rex, a dialogue agent for book recommendations. B. Rex aims to exploit the cognitive ease of natural dialogue and the excitement of a whimsical persona in order to engage users who might not enjoy using more common interfaces for finding new books. B. Rex succeeds in making book recommendations with good quality based on only information revealed by the user in the dialogue.
Adding interactive capabilities to pedestrian wayfinding systems in the form of spoken dialogue will make them more natural to humans. Such an interactive wayfinding system needs to continuously understand and interpret pedestrian{'}s utterances referring to the spatial context. Achieving this requires the system to identify exophoric referring expressions in the utterances, and link these expressions to the geographic entities in the vicinity. This exophoric spatial reference resolution problem is difficult, as there are often several dozens of candidate referents. We present a neural network-based approach for identifying pedestrian{'}s references (using a network called RefNet) and resolving them to appropriate geographic objects (using a network called SpaceRefNet). Both methods show promising results beating the respective baselines and earlier reported results in the literature.
Discourse relation classification has proven to be a hard task, with rather low performance on several corpora that notably differ on the relation set they use. We propose to decompose the task into smaller, mostly binary tasks corresponding to various primitive concepts encoded into the discourse relation definitions. More precisely, we translate the discourse relations into a set of values for attributes based on distinctions used in the mappings between discourse frameworks proposed by Sanders et al. (2018). This arguably allows for a more robust representation of discourse relations, and enables us to address usually ignored aspects of discourse relation prediction, namely multiple labels and underspecified annotations. We show experimentally which of the conceptual primitives are harder to learn from the Penn Discourse Treebank English corpus, and propose a correspondence to predict the original labels, with preliminary empirical comparisons with a direct model.
Word pairs across argument spans have been shown to be effective for predicting the discourse relation between them. We propose an approach to distill knowledge from word pairs for discourse relation classification with convolutional neural networks by incorporating joint learning of implicit and explicit relations. Our novel approach of representing the input as word pairs achieves state-of-the-art results on four-way classification of both implicit and explicit relations as well as one of the binary classification tasks. For explicit relation prediction, we achieve around 20{\%} error reduction on the four-way task. At the same time, compared to a two-layered Bi-LSTM-CRF model, our model is able to achieve these results with half the number of learnable parameters and approximately half the amount of training time.
This paper describes the LIAAD system that was ranked second place in the Wordin-Context challenge (WiC) featured in SemDeep-5. Our solution is based on a novel system for Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) using contextual embeddings and full-inventory sense embeddings. We adapt this WSD system, in a straightforward manner, for the present task of detecting whether the same sense occurs in a pair of sentences. Additionally, we show that our solution is able to achieve competitive performance even without using the provided training or development sets, mitigating potential concerns related to task overﬁtting. 
Multilingual speakers often switch between languages and generate enormous quantities of cross-language data. This phenomenon is more frequent observed in social media texts, where a large body of user generated data is produced every day. Such mix-lingual and informal texts lead to a challenge for partof-speech (POS) tagging, which is one fundamental task in natural language processing. In this paper, we propose a language-agnostic POS tagger for social media texts, which is able to learn from heterogeneous data with different genre and language type. Particularly, in order to comprehensively evaluate POS tagging performance, we propose a new tagging scheme including exclusive tags for special symbols in social media texts, and a humanannotated dataset of Chinese-English mixed social media texts is also developed. Experiments on both synthetic and real datasets show the validity and effectiveness of our model on social media texts where it outperforms stateof-the-art language-speciﬁc taggers. 
This paper describes a submission to the Word-in-Context competition for the IJCAI 2019 SemDeep-5 workshop. The task is to determine whether a given focus word is used in the same or diﬀerent senses in two contexts. We took an ELMo-inspired approach similar to the baseline model in the task description paper, where contextualized representations are obtained for the focus words and a classiﬁcation is made according to the degree of similarity between these representations. Our model had a few simple diﬀerences, notably joint training of the forward and backward LSTMs, a diﬀerent choice of states for the contextualized representations and a new similarity measure for them. These changes yielded a 3.5% improvement on the ELMo baseline. 
Recently proposed hyperbolic neural embeddings naturally represent latent hierarchical semantic relations, and could provide a suitable bridge from the discrete world of biological networks to continuous geometric representations, enabling down-stream machine learning tasks, such as link prediction. In some cases, however, link prediction is modeled by separating hyperbolic embeddings using classiﬁers that operate in a ﬂat Euclidean space, thus underexploiting the inherently curved geometric space of embeddings. Herein we present and analyze how recently introduced large-margin classiﬁers in hyperbolic space could be used in conjunction with hyperbolic embeddings, in order to perform biological link prediction, which exploits the curved geometry of complex biological information. 
Considerable progress in neural question answering has been made on competitive general domain datasets. In order to explore methods to aid the generalization potential of question answering models, we reimplement a stateof-the-art architecture, perform a parameter search on an open-domain dataset and evaluate a ﬁrst approach for integrating linguistic input features such as part-of-speech tags, syntactic dependency relations and semantic roles. The results show that adding these input features has a greater impact on performance than any of the architectural parameters we explore. Our ﬁndings suggest that these layers of linguistic knowledge have the potential to substantially increase the generalization capacities of neural QA models, thus facilitating cross-domain model transfer or the development of domain-agnostic QA models. 
Although the use of end-to-end neural architectures has been proven to be effective on several sequence labeling tasks, the use of gazetteers in these architectures is still rather unexplored. We investigate several options, aiming at exploiting gazetteers to extract relevant features, and then at integrating these features in a neural model for entity recognition. We provide experimental evidences on two datasets (named entities and nominal entities) and two languages (English and Italian), showing that extracting features from a rich model of the gazetteer and then concatenating such features with the input embeddings of a neural model is the best strategy in all our experimental settings, signiﬁcantly outperforming more conventional approaches. 
Commonsense procedural knowledge is important for AI agents and robots that operate in a human environment. While previous attempts at constructing procedural knowledge are mostly rule- and template-based, recent advances in deep learning provide the possibility of acquiring such knowledge directly from natural language sources. As a ﬁrst step in this direction, we propose a model to learn embeddings for tasks, as well as the individual steps that need to be taken to solve them, based on WikiHow1 articles. We learn these embeddings such that they are predictive of both step relevance and step ordering. We also experiment with the use of integer programming for inferring consistent global step orderings from noisy pairwise predictions. 
Extraction of structured information from unstructured text has always been a problem of interest for NLP community. Structured data is concise to store, search and retrieve; and it facilitates easier human & machine consumption. Traditionally, structured data extraction from text has been done by using various parsing methodologies, applying domain speciﬁc rules and heuristics. In this work, we leverage the developments in the space of sequence modeling for the problem of structured data extraction. Initially, we posed the problem as a machine translation problem and used the state-of-the-art machine translation model. Based on these initial results, we changed the approach to a sequence tagging one. We propose an extension of one of the attractive models for sequence tagging tailored and effective to our problem. This gave 4.4% improvement over the vanilla sequence tagging model. We also propose another variant of the sequence tagging model which can handle multiple labels of words. Experiments have been performed on Wikipedia Infobox Dataset of biographies and results are presented for both single and multi-label models. These models indicate an effective alternate deep learning technique based methods to extract structured data from raw text. 
We introduce a weighted extension of the recently proposed notion of order-preserving hyperedge-replacement grammars and prove that the weight of a graph according to such a weighted graph grammar can be computed uniformly in quadratic time (under assumptions made precise in the paper). 
Various aspects of syntax have recently been characterized in subregular terms. However, these characterizations operate over very different representations, including string encodings of c-command relations as well as tiers projected from derivation trees. We present a way to unify these approaches via sensing tree automata over Minimalist grammar dependency trees. Sensing tree automata are deterministic top-down tree automata that may inspect the labels of all daughter nodes before assigning them speciﬁc states. It is already known that these automata cannot correctly enforce all movement dependencies in Minimalist grammars, but we show that this result no longer holds if one takes into account several well-established empirical restrictions on movement. Sensing tree automata thus furnish a strong yet uniform upper bound on the complexity of syntactic dependencies. 
In binary propositional constructions S1 con S2, the Strong Kleene connectives explain ﬁltering of S1’s and S2’s presuppositions depending on their logical relations with their non-presuppositional content. However, the presuppositions derived by the Strong Kleene connectives are weak conditional presuppositions, which raise the “proviso problem” in cases where no ﬁltering is motivated. Weak Kleene connectives do not face this problem, but only because their presuppositions are often too strong, and hence do not account for ﬁltering phenomena altogether. While various mechanisms have been proposed to allow ﬁltering without the proviso problem, their relations with the standard trivalent Kleene systems have remained unclear. This paper shows that by sacriﬁcing truth-functionality, we uncover a rich domain of possibilities in trivalent semantics in between the Weak Kleene and Strong Kleene connectives. These systems derive presupposition ﬁltering while avoiding the proviso problem. The Kleene-style operators studied are generalized to arbitrary binary functions, which further clariﬁes the connection between their different “repair” strategies and presupposition projection. 
We apply the Agda-ﬂat proof assistant (Vezzosi, 2019) to computational semantics. Computational semantics in Agda-ﬂat is distinguished from the approach based on Coq (Chatzikyriakidis and Luo, 2014) in that it allows an implementation of the classical, intensional semantic analyses of Montague (1973). That is, it synthesizes the modern dependent type theory and Montague intensional logic traditions in the computational semantics setting. To demonstrate this, we show how to replicate Montague’s analyses in the type theory of Zwanziger (2018), which closely corresponds to the Agda-ﬂat system. Accompanying code type-checks these analyses in Agdaﬂat. 
In this paper we deﬁne quantiﬁer-free least ﬁxed point functions (QFLFP) and argue that they are an appropriate and valuable approach to modeling phonological processes (construed as input-output maps). These functions, characterized in terms of ﬁrst order logic interpretations over graphs, provide a close ﬁt to the observed typology, capturing both local and long-distance phenomena, but are also restrictive in desirable ways. Namely, QFLFP logical functions approximate the computation of deterministic ﬁnite-state transducers, which have been argued to form a restrictive hypothesis for phonological processes. 
We derive abstract characterizations of the Strictly Piecewise Local (SPL) and Piecewise Locally Testable (PLT) stringsets. These generalize both the Strictly Local/Locally Testable stringsets (SL and LT) and Strictly Piecewise/Piecewise Testable stringsets (SP and PT) in that SPL constraints can be stated in terms of both adjacency and precedence. We do this in a fully abstract setting which applies to any class of purely relational models that label the points in their domain with some ﬁnite labeling alphabet. This includes, for example, labeled trees and graphs. The actual structure of the class of intended models only shows up in interpreting the abstract characterizations of the deﬁnable sets in terms of the structure of the models themselves. 
This paper characterizes the Output Tier-based Strictly k-Local (OTSLk) class of string-tostring functions, which are relevant for modeling long-distance phonological processes as input-output maps. After showing that any OTSLk function can be learned when k and the tier are given, we present a new algorithm that induces the tier itself when k = 2 and provably learns any total OTSL2 function in polynomial time and data—the ﬁrst such learner for any class of tier-based functions. 
This paper examines the characterization and learning of grammars deﬁned with enriched representational models. Model-theoretic approaches to formal language theory traditionally assume that each position in a string belongs to exactly one unary relation. We consider unconventional string models where positions can have multiple, shared properties, which are arguably useful in many applications. We show the structures given by these models are partially ordered, and present a learning algorithm that exploits this ordering relation to effectively prune the hypothesis space. We prove this learning algorithm, which takes positive examples as input, ﬁnds the most general grammar which covers the data. 
This paper proves that for every class C of stochastic languages deﬁned with the coemission product of ﬁnitely many probabilistic, deterministic ﬁnite-state acceptors (PDFA) and for every data sequence D of ﬁnitely many strings drawn i.i.d. from some stochastic language, the Maximum Likelihood Estimate of D with respect to C can be found efﬁciently by locally optimizing the parameter values. We show that a consequence of the co-emission product is that each PDFA behaves like an independent factor in a joint distribution. Thus, the likelihood function decomposes in a natural way. We also show that the negative log likelihood function is convex. These results are motivated by the study of Strictly k-Piecewise (SPk) Stochastic Languages, which form a class of stochastic languages which is both linguistically motivated and naturally understood in terms of the coemission product of certain PDFAs. 
The distribution of sentence length in ordinary language is not well captured by the existing models. Here we survey previous models of sentence length and present our random walk model that offers both a better ﬁt with the data and a better understanding of the distribution. We develop a generalization of KL divergence, discuss measuring the noise inherent in a corpus, and present a hyperparameterfree Bayesian model comparison method that has strong conceptual ties to Minimal Description Length modeling. The models we obtain require only a few dozen bits, orders of magnitude less than the naive nonparametric MDL models would. 
Computer stylometry is the computer analysis of writing style. We use the computer stylometric techniques of Hierarchical Cluster Analysis, Principal Component Analysis and Machine Learning to examine the authorship of “The Liberation of Women” which is normally attributed to Qassim Amin. In particular we examine the assertion by Mohamed Emara that certain chapters of this book were written secretly by Mohammad Abdu, who was the Grand Mufti of Egypt. In our experiments, we consistently find that Qassim Amin is the more likely author of the disputed text. The experiments described in this paper were done using the “Stylometry in R” package of Eder et al. (2016). 
The focus of this paper is on how to compile and analyse a transcribed spoken Gulf Pidgin Arabic (GPA) corpus with a specific focus on the influence of length of stay in the Gulf on foreign expat female speakers of GPA. GPA is a simplified contact variety of the Arabic language used in the Gulf states for communication between native Arabic speakers and foreign workers and among the workers themselves. This study provides a quantitative analysis of language variation in GPA based on five morpho-syntactic features that are related to the length of stay in the Gulf: definiteness and indefiniteness, coordination, copular verbs, pronouns, and agreement in the verb phrase and in the noun and adjective phrase. Digital recorders and planned interviews were used for collecting accurate naturalistic data. Through a comparative corpus-based analysis of approximately 72,000 words spoken by GPA female participants, evidence from this corpus data indicates that length of stay in the Gulf seems to have a little effect on informants ‘choice between GPA linguistic variants. Newcomers and longterm resident GPA female speakers in the Gulf shift towards Gulf Arabic (GA), the lexifier language, in only two features: definiteness and use of conjunction markers.  
This paper follows a recent court case which judged that “Don't despair” (‫ )لا تيأس‬by Aaidh ibn Abdullah Al-Qarni was plagiarized from Salwa Aladian’s “That is how they defeat Despair” ( ‫هكذا‬ ‫)هزموا اليأس‬. We use techniques of computational stylometry, Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering Analysis and Principal Components Analysis, to show that the disputed sections not only resemble Salwa’s work in content, but also in writing style. 
There is vast untapped potential in relation to the use of social media for monitoring the spread of infectious diseases around the world. Much previous research has focussed on English only, but the Arabic twitter universe has been comparatively much less studied. Motivated by important issues related to levels of trust, quality and reliability of the information online, here we consider the variety of information sources. As a ﬁrst step, we ﬁnd that numerous accounts disseminate information via Arabic social media, and we group them into ﬁve types of sources: academic, media, government, health professional, and public. We perform two experiments. First, native speakers judge whether they can manually classify tweets into these ﬁve groups, and then we repeat the experiment using various Machine Learning (ML) classiﬁers. We ﬁnd that inter-annotator agreement is 0.84 for this task, and ML classiﬁers are able to correctly identify the type of source of a tweet with 77.2% accuracy without knowledge of the user and their bio or proﬁle, but with 99.9% accuracy when provided with this information. Keywords: Arabic, Infectious diseases, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Twitter. 
In this paper, we exploit natural language processing techniques to build a system that automatically segments Hadith into its two main components, Isnad and Matn. We evaluate the previous attempts to segment Hadith and identiﬁed the limitations in these studies. Then a Hadith segmentation system is built and tested with Hadith collections extracted from six different Hadith books. The result demonstrates that bi-grams are effective in identifying Hadith segments with 92.5% accuracy. 
We present the Shami-Senti corpus, the ﬁrst Levantine corpus for Sentiment Analysis (SA), and investigate the usage of off-the-shelf models that have been built for Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) on this corpus of Dialectal Arabic (DA). We apply the models on DA data, showing that their accuracy does not exceed 60%. We then proceed to build our own models involving different feature combinations and machine learning methods for both MSA and DA and achieve an accuracy of 83% and 75% respectively. 
In recent years, research in Natural Language Processing (NLP) on Arabic has garnered signiﬁcant attention. This includes research about classiﬁcation of Arabic dialect texts, but due to the lack of Arabic dialect text corpora this research has not achieved a high accuracy. Arabic dialects text classiﬁcation is becoming important due to the increasing use of Arabic dialect in social media, so this text is now considered quite appropriate as a medium of communication and as a source of a corpus. We collected tweets, comments from Facebook and online newspapers representing ﬁve groups of Arabic dialects: Gulf, Iraqi, Egyptian, Levantine, and North African. This paper investigates how to classify Arabic dialects in text by extracting lexicons for each dialect which show the distinctive vocabulary differences between dialects. We describe the lexicon-based methods used to classify Arabic dialect texts and present the results, in addition to techniques used to improve accuracy. 
The limited availability of Egyptian Arabic (EA) corpus resources, especially speech corpora, has left open opportunity for research into such dialect phenomena as register. In this paper we introduce a new two-millionword EA corpus, CALM. We perform a register analysis on EA between two subcorpora of CALM (i.e. Movies and Blogs), showing several features that vary between the two. A discussion follows about how annotation was carried out automatically, how it was handcorrected, and what the prospects are for carrying out similar studies using CALM. 
Social media (SM) platforms such as Twitter offer a rich source of real-time information about crises from which useful information can be extracted to support situational awareness. The task of automatically identifying SM messages related to a speciﬁc event poses many challenges, including processing large volumes of short, noisy data in real time. This paper explored the problem of extracting crisis-related messages from Arabic Twitter data. We focused on high-risk ﬂoods as they are one of the main hazards in the Middle East. In this work, we presented a goldstandard Arabic Twitter corpus for four highrisk ﬂoods that occurred in 2018. Using the annotated dataset, we investigated the performance of different classical machine learning (ML) and deep neural network (DNN) classiﬁers. The results showed that deep learning is promising in identifying ﬂood-related posts. 
This paper reports on the development of two important tools designed specifically for the project entitled “the Saudi Learner Translation Corpus” (SauLTC): the conversion tool and the SauLTC application. The challenges encountered during the different stages of the project, especially the stage of the corpus alignment, were highlighted. SauLTC is a POS-tagged and error annotated parallel corpus proposed to be 3 million tokens, including translation projects required for graduation at the College of Languages at the Princess Nourah bint Abdulrahman University in Riyadh. It comprises a multi-version corpus featuring linguistic annotation, complemented with an interface for monolingual or bilingual querying of the data. The corpus can be used to identify the students’ strategies in translation and analyze their patterns of language use. The paper describes the corpus parameters and compilation process, followed by an explanation of how the textual processing and sentence alignment is being conducted. A detailed description of the SauLTC conversion tool and the application will be provided. Potential uses of the corpus will be suggested for research, training and pedagogical purposes. 
Authorship Verification (AV) is a type of stylometric analysis that addresses an authorship problem where, given a document of unknown origin and a set of documents written by a known author, the task is to identify whether the document is indeed written by that author. Previous research uses a number of techniques to address this problem. Most successful techniques in Classical Arabic as well as other languages use an SVM method supported by a distance measure in vector space and a distance/similarity threshold for accepting the document as authentic. While Arabic Authorship Attribution (where the task is to attribute the question document to one of several candidates) surveys and evaluates the usability of different distance measures, this paper is the first to provide such overview for Modern Arabic AV. Using a corpus of short texts from five common Modern Standard Arabic genres, this paper evaluates four common distance measures (Canberra, Manhattan, Cosine, and Jaccard) with a number of lexical, syntactic, and morphological features. The results show that Canberra Distance is a best performing distance measure in most genres, with an accuracy rate of up to 97.8%, well over highest known baseline. 
Business taxonomies are indispensable tools for investors to do equity research and make professional decisions. However, to identify the structure of industry sectors in an emerging market is challenging for two reasons. First, existing taxonomies are designed for mature markets, which may not be the appropriate classiﬁcation for small companies with innovative business models. Second, emerging markets are fast-developing, thus the static business taxonomies cannot promptly reﬂect the new features. In this article, we propose a new method to construct business taxonomies automatically from the content of corporate annual reports. Extracted concepts are hierarchically clustered using greedy afﬁnity propagation. Our method requires less supervision and is able to discover new terms. Experiments and evaluation on the Chinese National Equities Exchange and Quotations (NEEQ) market show several advantages of the business taxonomy we build. Our results provide an effective tool for understanding and investing in the new growth companies. 
Contract management is key to ﬁnancial services. Contracts lay down rules for doing business or present guidelines and recommendations for maximizing ﬁnancial advantage of stakeholders in a given scenario. Contracts related to award of projects by companies to vendors, employment contracts, lease agreements, franchise agreement and even prenuptial agreements have signiﬁcant ﬁnancial implications. Making sense of contracts is an important step in achieving organizational goals such as building compliant systems, meeting delivery deadlines, avoiding heavy penalties and steering clear of expensive litigation. The complexity of “contracts language” however, makes it difﬁcult to leverage the guidance they intend to offer. Contracts are written ex ante, based on forecasts rather than actual results, and may therefore contain ambiguous and incomplete guidance that can result in unintended violations. We address these problems by aiming to automate the disambiguation of contracts using a generalized architecture – R3 to (1) Recognize important essential information present in contracts, (2) Reason over the information elements to identify their interrelations and uncover ambiguities and inconsistencies, and (3) Render the information in a visual format (for example, Message Sequence Charts) depicting different elements in contractual obligations. 
Stock market trading simulation platforms have become popular ﬁnance education tools in recent years. To encourage students to think through a trade order, many of such platforms provide a ﬁeld called “rationale” in the trade order user interface. In this paper, we ﬁrst present a novel problem called “thoughtful rationale classiﬁcation” based on two studies: (1) an observational study on the factors affecting a ﬁnance professional assessment of a student’s trading sophistication and (2) a qualitative study on 2,622 rationales. The two studies together reveal that when a student provides thoughtful rationales, deﬁned as rationales that document external research, speciﬁc strategies, or any technical analysis performed, the student is likely to be assessed higher in terms of the trading sophistication. We show that labelling rationales as thoughtful or not is a well deﬁned task and automate it using CNNs. We also compare baseline implementations using simple features and support vector machines over selected keywords. 
In an era when machine learning and artiﬁcial intelligence have huge momentum, the data demand to train and test models is steadily growing. We introduce CoFiF, the ﬁrst corpus comprising company reports in the French language. It contains over 188 million tokens in 2655 reports, covering reference documents, annual, semestrial and trimestrial reports. Our main focus is on the 60 largest French companies listed in France’s main stock indices CAC40 and CAC Next 20. The corpus spans over 20 years, ranging from 1995 to 2018. To evaluate this novel collection of organizational writing, we use CoFiF to generate two character-level language models, a forward and a backward one, which we use to demonstrate the corpus potential on business, economics, and management research in the French language. The corpus is accessible on Github 1. 
In the ﬁeld of ﬁnance and lawsuit, data mining technology has absolute broad market prospect but also is a challenging task. Past years have witnessed great successes of data mining in ﬁnance and lawsuit related applications. Most existing work usually focus on providing litigation risk assessment and outcome prediction services for the clients. However, the research on the legal litigation type for enterprise is limited. In this paper, we focus on enterprise lawsuit category prediction and propose a novel approach to reﬁne the problem as a classiﬁcation task. First, We evaluate the possibility distribution of legal documents received by the enterprise, then distinguish the speciﬁc legal litigation type. We apply our method on International Big Data Analysis Competition1 launched by IEEE ISI Conference 2019 and scored the ﬁrst place in the ﬁnal leader-board. 
Recently, machine learning and in particular deep neural network approaches have become progressively popular, playing an increasingly important role in the ﬁnancial domain. This results in an increased demand for large volumes of high quality labeled data for training and testing. While annotation tools are available to support text analysis tasks such as entity recognition and sentiment classiﬁcation for generic content, there is an absence of annotation tools purposely built for the ﬁnancial domain. Hand in hand with this, there are also no existing best practices for sentiment annotation in the ﬁnancial domain. To address this issue, we suggest fundamental practices for the creation of new datasets for this domain and integrate these into our annotation tool. We present CoSACT, a server-based tool which supports the collaborative annotation and consolidation of a dataset purposely built for the ﬁnancial domain. 
In this paper, we propose a novel framework for analyzing inter-industry relations using the contact histories of local banks. Contact histories are data recorded when employees communicate with customers. By analyzing contact histories, we can determine business conﬁdence levels in the local region and analyze inter-industry relations using industrial data that is attached to the contact history. However, it is often difﬁcult for bankers to create analysis programs. Therefore, we propose a banker-friendly inter-industry relations analysis framework. In this study, we generated regional business conﬁdence indices and used them to analyze inter-industry relations. 
Social media sentiment has shown to be a useful resource for product sales forecast. However, research on modeling the correlation between sentiment index and sales is often limited by the scarceness of quarterly sales data. In this paper, we propose to learn how to learn sentiment-sales correlation from different source products and transfer to sales prediction of another, target product. We evaluated our approach on sales data of seven different smartphones and showed that the knowledge transfer from six source products signiﬁcantly reduced the sales prediction error for the target product, in a 7-fold cross-validation experiment. 
Financial and Economic Attitudes Revealed by Search (FEARS) index reflects the attention and sentiment of public investors and is an important factor for predicting stock price return. In this paper, we take into account the semantics of the FEARS search terms by leveraging the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), and further apply a self-attention deep learning model to our refined FEARS seamlessly for stock return prediction. We demonstrate the practical benefits of our approach by comparing to baseline works. 
In this research, we extract causal information from textual data and construct a causality database in the economic field. Furthermore, we develop a method to produce causal chains starting from phrases representing specific events and offer possible ripple effects and factors of specific events or situations. Using our method to Japanese textual data, we have implemented a prototype system that can display causal chains for user-entered words. A user can interactively edit the causal chains by selecting appropriate causalities and deleting inappropriate causalities. In this project, we will apply our method to English textual data such as financial news articles and financial reports. The economic causal-chain search algorithm can be applying to various financial information services. 
Stock movements prediction is a highly challenging study for research and industry. Using social media for stock movements prediction is an effective but difﬁcult task. However, the existing prediction methods which are based on social media usually do not consider the rich semantics and relation for a certain stock. It leads to difﬁculty in effective encoding. To solve this problem, we propose a CapTE (Capsule network based on Transformer Encoder) model which uses the Transformer Encoder to extract the deep semantic features of the social media and then captures the structural relationship of the texts through a capsule network. In this paper, we evaluate our method with different benchmarks, and the results demonstrate that our method improves the performance of stock movements prediction. 
Banks are faced with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) obligations so they have to identify customers by conducting negative news, aka ”adverse media”, screening which consists of searching information in the public domain for news items, publications, and government advisories and bulletins for information related an individual or entity’s involvement in ﬁnancial crime matters. Although it is an essential way to determine who in the group poses a higher risk for potential ﬁnancial crime concerns by catching sophisticated activities from negative news across globe, it also requires heavy human capital and processing time on screening daily produced negative news. Therefore, poor efﬁciency becomes the most unacceptable obstacle based on this approach. To mitigate this issue, Pluto1 offers a distributed and scalable batch system embedded deep learning-based Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques for AML practitioners to improve daily task efﬁciency. It performs text preprocessing, paragraph embeddings, and clustering algorithm on a set of negative news and provide clustering result with keywords and similarities for AML practitioners. The overall feedback from AML practitioners are very positive on such an impressive enhancement in which Pluto reduces 67% efforts of negative news screening. 
The word “Credit” comes from the Latin ‘credere’ which means “to give trust”. The way this trust is being given today by financial institutions is mainly based on statistical methods, using financial information - such as the revenues of an individual, the money he/she spends monthly, etc. - to quantify the chances of a successful loan repayment. By definition, this method of quantifying risk limits the access to financial services to individuals who have banking information history. In emerging markets, as described here, a huge part of the population doesn't meet these criteria and is accordingly left outside of the equation. This paper discusses alternative approaches to allow these unbanked people to access financial services in reviewing current and innovative Natural Language Processing and Natural Language Understanding methods. The latter support excellent risk quantification results without affecting the privacy of the borrower and result in moving from biased creditworthiness to broader trustworthiness. 
We demo a chatbot in a personal finance domain that delivers content in the form of virtual dialogues automatically produced from plain texts extracted and selected from documents. Given an initial query, this chatbot finds documents, extracts topics from them, organizes these topics in clusters according to conflicting viewpoints, receives from the user clarification on which cluster is most relevant to her opinion, and provides the content for this cluster. This content is provided in the form of a virtual dialogue where the answers are derived from the found and selected documents and its split results, and questions are automatically generated for these answers. 
Portable Document Format (PDF) has become the industry-standard document as it is independent of the software, hardware or operating system. Publicly listed companies annually publish a variety of reports and too take advantage of PDF. This leads to the rise in PDF containing valuable ﬁnancial information and the demand for approaches able to accurately extract this data. Analyzing and mining information requires a challenging extraction phase, particularly with respect to document structure. In this paper, we describe a sentence boundary detection approach capable of extracting complete sentences from unstructured lists of tokens. Our approach is based on the application of a language model and sequence classiﬁer for both the English and the French language. The results show a good performance, achieving F1 scores of 0.855 and 0.91, and placed our team in 3rd and 5th for the French and English language, respectively. 
We present the results from the 5th round of the WMT task on MT Automatic Post-Editing. The task consists in automatically correcting the output of a {``}black-box{''} machine translation system by learning from human corrections. Keeping the same general evaluation setting of the previous four rounds, this year we focused on two language pairs (English-German and English-Russian) and on domain-specific data (In-formation Technology). For both the language directions, MT outputs were produced by neural systems unknown to par-ticipants. Seven teams participated in the English-German task, with a total of 18 submitted runs. The evaluation, which was performed on the same test set used for the 2018 round, shows a slight progress in APE technology: 4 teams achieved better results than last year{'}s winning system, with improvements up to -0.78 TER and +1.23 BLEU points over the baseline. Two teams participated in theEnglish-Russian task submitting 2 runs each. On this new language direction, characterized by a higher quality of the original translations, the task proved to be particularly challenging. None of the submitted runs improved the very high results of the strong system used to produce the initial translations(16.16 TER, 76.20 BLEU).
In the fourth edition of the WMT Biomedical Translation task, we considered a total of six languages, namely Chinese (zh), English (en), French (fr), German (de), Portuguese (pt), and Spanish (es). We performed an evaluation of automatic translations for a total of 10 language directions, namely, zh/en, en/zh, fr/en, en/fr, de/en, en/de, pt/en, en/pt, es/en, and en/es. We provided training data based on MEDLINE abstracts for eight of the 10 language pairs and test sets for all of them. In addition to that, we offered a new sub-task for the translation of terms in biomedical terminologies for the en/es language direction. Higher BLEU scores (close to 0.5) were obtained for the es/en, en/es and en/pt test sets, as well as for the terminology sub-task. After manual validation of the primary runs, some submissions were judged to be better than the reference translations, for instance, for de/en, en/es and es/en.
We obtain new results using referential translation machines with increased number of learning models in the set of results that are stacked to obtain a better mixture of experts prediction. We combine features extracted from the word-level predictions with the sentence- or document-level features, which significantly improve the results on the training sets but decrease the test set results.
We propose the use of pre-trained embeddings as features of a regression model for sentence-level quality estimation of machine translation. In our work we combine freely available BERT and LASER multilingual embeddings to train a neural-based regression model. In the second proposed method we use as an input features not only pre-trained embeddings, but also log probability of any machine translation (MT) system. Both methods are applied to several language pairs and are evaluated both as a classical quality estimation system (predicting the HTER score) as well as an MT metric (predicting human judgements of translation quality).
Quality estimation (QE) of machine translation (MT) systems is a task of growing importance. It reduces the cost of post-editing, allowing machine-translated text to be used in formal occasions. In this work, we describe our submission system in WMT 2019 sentence-level QE task. We mainly explore the utilization of pre-trained translation models in QE and adopt a bi-directional translation-like strategy. The strategy is similar to ELMo, but additionally conditions on source sentences. Experiments on WMT QE dataset show that our strategy, which makes the pre-training slightly harder, can bring improvements for QE. In WMT-2019 QE task, our system ranked in the second place on En-De NMT dataset and the third place on En-Ru NMT dataset.
In this paper we present an English{--}German Automatic Post-Editing (APE) system called transference, submitted to the APE Task organized at WMT 2019. Our transference model is based on a multi-encoder transformer architecture. Unlike previous approaches, it (i) uses a transformer encoder block for src, (ii) followed by a transformer decoder block, but without masking, for self-attention on mt, which effectively acts as second encoder combining src {--}{\textgreater} mt, and (iii) feeds this representation into a final decoder block generating pe. Our model improves over the raw black-box neural machine translation system by 0.9 and 1.0 absolute BLEU points on the WMT 2019 APE development and test set. Our submission ranked 3rd, however compared to the two top systems, performance differences are not statistically significant.
In this work, we give a description of the TALP-UPC systems submitted for the WMT19 Biomedical Translation Task. Our proposed strategy is NMT model-independent and relies only on one ingredient, a biomedical terminology list. We first extracted such a terminology list by labelling biomedical words in our training dataset using the BabelNet API. Then, we designed a data preparation strategy to insert the terms information at a token level. Finally, we trained the Transformer model with this terms-informed data. Our best-submitted system ranked 2nd and 3rd for Spanish-English and English-Spanish translation directions, respectively.
The 2019 WMT Biomedical translation task involved translating Medline abstracts. We approached this using transfer learning to obtain a series of strong neural models on distinct domains, and combining them into multi-domain ensembles. We further experimented with an adaptive language-model ensemble weighting scheme. Our submission achieved the best submitted results on both directions of English-Spanish.
Although the problem of similar language translation has been an area of research interest for many years, yet it is still far from being solved. In this paper, we study the performance of two popular approaches: statistical and neural. We conclude that both methods yield similar results; however, the performance varies depending on the language pair. While the statistical approach outperforms the neural one by a difference of 6 BLEU points for the Spanish-Portuguese language pair, the proposed neural model surpasses the statistical one by a difference of 2 BLEU points for Czech-Polish. In the former case, the language similarity (based on perplexity) is much higher than in the latter case. Additionally, we report negative results for the system combination with back-translation. Our TALP-UPC system submission won 1st place for Czech-{\textgreater}Polish and 2nd place for Spanish-{\textgreater}Portuguese in the official evaluation of the 1st WMT Similar Language Translation task.
This paper presents the NICT{'}s participation in the WMT19 shared Similar Language Translation Task. We participated in the Spanish-Portuguese task. For both translation directions, we prepared state-of-the-art statistical (SMT) and neural (NMT) machine translation systems. Our NMT systems with the Transformer architecture were trained on the provided parallel data enlarged with a large quantity of back-translated monolingual data. Our primary submission to the task is the result of a simple combination of our SMT and NMT systems. According to BLEU, our systems were ranked second and third respectively for the Portuguese-to-Spanish and Spanish-to-Portuguese translation directions. For contrastive experiments, we also submitted outputs generated with an unsupervised SMT system.
This paper describes the University of Helsinki Language Technology group{'}s participation in the WMT 2019 similar language translation task. We trained neural machine translation models for the language pairs Czech {\textless}-{\textgreater} Polish and Spanish {\textless}-{\textgreater} Portuguese. Our experiments focused on different subword segmentation methods, and in particular on the comparison of a cognate-aware segmentation method, Cognate Morfessor, with character segmentation and unsupervised segmentation methods for which the data from different languages were simply concatenated. We did not observe major benefits from cognate-aware segmentation methods, but further research may be needed to explore larger parts of the parameter space. Character-level models proved to be competitive for translation between Spanish and Portuguese, but they are slower in training and decoding.
We introduce a purely monolingual approach to filtering for parallel data from a noisy corpus in a low-resource scenario. Our work is inspired by Junczysdowmunt:2018, but we relax the requirements to allow for cases where no parallel data is available. Our primary contribution is a dual monolingual cross-entropy delta criterion modified from Cynical data selection Axelrod:2017, and is competitive (within 1.8 BLEU) with the best bilingual filtering method when used to train SMT systems. Our approach is featherweight, and runs end-to-end on a standard laptop in three hours.
We describe the National Research Council Canada team{'}s submissions to the parallel corpus filtering task at the Fourth Conference on Machine Translation.
The WMT19 Parallel Corpus Filtering For Low-Resource Conditions Task aims to test various methods of filtering a noisy parallel corpora, to make them useful for training machine translation systems. This year the noisy corpora are the relatively low-resource language pairs of Nepali-English and Sinhala-English. This papers describes the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) submissions, including preprocessing methods and scoring metrics. Numerical results indicate a benefit over baseline and the relative benefits of different options.
We present a very simple method for parallel text cleaning of low-resource languages, based on projection of word embeddings trained on large monolingual corpora in high-resource languages. In spite of its simplicity, we approach the strong baseline system in the downstream machine translation evaluation.
This paper describes the University of Helsinki Language Technology group{'}s participation in the WMT 2019 parallel corpus filtering task. Our scores were produced using a two-step strategy. First, we individually applied a series of filters to remove the {`}bad{'} quality sentences. Then, we produced scores for each sentence by weighting these features with a classification model. This methodology allowed us to build a simple and reliable system that is easily adaptable to other language pairs.
This paper describes the Global Tone Communication Co., Ltd.{'}s submission of the WMT19 shared news translation task. We participate in six directions: English to (Gujarati, Lithuanian and Finnish) and (Gujarati, Lithuanian and Finnish) to English. Further, we get the best BLEU scores in the directions of English to Gujarati and Lithuanian to English (28.2 and 36.3 respectively) among all the participants. The submitted systems mainly focus on back-translation, knowledge distillation and reranking to build a competitive model for this task. Also, we apply language model to filter monolingual data, back-translated data and parallel data. The techniques we apply for data filtering include filtering by rules, language models. Besides, We conduct several experiments to validate different knowledge distillation techniques and right-to-left (R2L) reranking.
We build parfda Moses statistical machine translation (SMT) models for most language pairs in the news translation task. We experiment with a hybrid approach using neural language models integrated into Moses. We obtain the constrained data statistics on the machine translation task, the coverage of the test sets, and the upper bounds on the translation results. We also contribute a new testsuite for the German-English language pair and a new automated key phrase extraction technique for the evaluation of the testsuite translations.
This paper describes the neural machine translation (NMT) systems of the LIUM Laboratory developed for the French↔German news translation task of the Fourth Conference onMachine Translation (WMT 2019). The chosen language pair is included for the first time in the WMT news translation task. We de-scribe how the training and the evaluation data was created. We also present our participation in the French↔German translation directions using self-attentional Transformer networks with small and big architectures.
This paper describes the University of Maryland{'}s submission to the WMT 2019 Kazakh-English news translation task. We study the impact of transfer learning from another low-resource but related language. We experiment with different ways of encoding lexical units to maximize lexical overlap between the two language pairs, as well as back-translation and ensembling. The submitted system improves over a Kazakh-only baseline by +5.45 BLEU on newstest2019.
In this paper, we describe our supervised neural machine translation (NMT) systems that we developed for the news translation task for Kazakh↔English, Gujarati↔English, Chinese↔English, and English→Finnish translation directions. We focused on leveraging multilingual transfer learning and back-translation for the extremely low-resource language pairs: Kazakh↔English and Gujarati↔English translation. For the Chinese↔English translation, we used the provided parallel data augmented with a large quantity of back-translated monolingual data to train state-of-the-art NMT systems. We then employed techniques that have been proven to be most effective, such as back-translation, fine-tuning, and model ensembling, to generate the primary submissions of Chinese↔English. For English→Finnish, our submission from WMT18 remains a strong baseline despite the increase in parallel corpora for this year{'}s task.
This paper describes the University of Sydney{'}s submission of the WMT 2019 shared news translation task. We participated in the Finnish-{\textgreater}English direction and got the best BLEU(33.0) score among all the participants. Our system is based on the self-attentional Transformer networks, into which we integrated the most recent effective strategies from academic research (e.g., BPE, back translation, multi-features data selection, data augmentation, greedy model ensemble, reranking, ConMBR system combination, and postprocessing). Furthermore, we propose a novel augmentation method Cycle Translation and a data mixture strategy Big/Small parallel construction to entirely exploit the synthetic corpus. Extensive experiments show that adding the above techniques can make continuous improvements of the BLEU scores, and the best result outperforms the baseline (Transformer ensemble model trained with the original parallel corpus) by approximately 5.3 BLEU score, achieving the state-of-the-art performance.
This paper describes the UdS-DFKI submission to the WMT2019 news translation task for Gujarati{--}English (low-resourced pair) and German{--}English (document-level evaluation). Our systems rely on the on-line extraction of parallel sentences from comparable corpora for the first scenario and on the inclusion of coreference-related information in the training data in the second one.
This paper describes the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) machine translation systems and the improvements that were developed during the WMT19 evaluation campaign. This year, we refine our approach to training popular neural machine translation toolkits, experiment with a new domain adaptation technique and again measure improvements in performance on the Russian{--}English language pair.
This paper described NiuTrans neural machine translation systems for the WMT 2019 news translation tasks. We participated in 13 translation directions, including 11 supervised tasks, namely EN↔{ZH, DE, RU, KK, LT}, GU→EN and the unsupervised DE↔CS sub-track. Our systems were built on Deep Transformer and several back-translation methods. Iterative knowledge distillation and ensemble+reranking were also employed to obtain stronger models. Our unsupervised submissions were based on NMT enhanced by SMT. As a result, we achieved the highest BLEU scores in {KK↔EN, GU→EN} directions, ranking 2nd in {RU→EN, DE↔CS} and 3rd in {ZH→EN, LT→EN, EN→RU, EN↔DE} among all constrained submissions.
We describe the neural machine translation (NMT) system developed at the National Research Council of Canada (NRC) for the Kazakh-English news translation task of the Fourth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT19). Our submission is a multi-source NMT taking both the original Kazakh sentence and its Russian translation as input for translating into English.
This paper presents the NICT{'}s participation in the WMT19 unsupervised news translation task. We participated in the unsupervised translation direction: German-Czech. Our primary submission to the task is the result of a simple combination of our unsupervised neural and statistical machine translation systems. Our system is ranked first for the German-to-Czech translation task, using only the data provided by the organizers ({``}constraint{'}{''}), according to both BLEU-cased and human evaluation. We also performed contrastive experiments with other language pairs, namely, English-Gujarati and English-Kazakh, to better assess the effectiveness of unsupervised machine translation in for distant language pairs and in truly low-resource conditions.
This paper describes the PROMT submissions for the WMT 2019 Shared News Translation Task. This year we participated in two language pairs and in three directions: English-Russian, English-German and German-English. All our submissions are Marian-based neural systems. We use significantly more data compared to the last year. We also present our improved data filtering pipeline.
This paper describes Facebook FAIR{'}s submission to the WMT19 shared news translation task. We participate in four language directions, English {\textless}-{\textgreater} German and English {\textless}-{\textgreater} Russian in both directions. Following our submission from last year, our baseline systems are large BPE-based transformer models trained with the FAIRSEQ sequence modeling toolkit. This year we experiment with different bitext data filtering schemes, as well as with adding filtered back-translated data. We also ensemble and fine-tune our models on domain-specific data, then decode using noisy channel model reranking. Our system improves on our previous system{'}s performance by 4.5 BLEU points and achieves the best case-sensitive BLEU score for the translation direction English→Russian.
This paper describes the neural machine translation systems developed at the RWTH Aachen University for the German-English, Chinese-English and Kazakh-English news translation tasks of the Fourth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT19). For all tasks, the final submitted system is based on the Transformer architecture. We focus on improving data filtering and fine-tuning as well as systematically evaluating interesting approaches like unigram language model segmentation and transfer learning. For the De-En task, none of the tested methods gave a significant improvement over last years winning system and we end up with the same performance, resulting in 39.6{\%} BLEU on newstest2019. In the Zh-En task, we show 1.3{\%} BLEU improvement over our last year{'}s submission, which we mostly attribute to the splitting of long sentences during translation. We further report results on the Kazakh-English task where we gain improvements of 11.1{\%} BLEU over our baseline system. On the same task we present a recent transfer learning approach, which uses half of the free parameters of our submission system and performs on par with it.
This paper describes the two submissions of Universitat d{'}Alacant to the English-to-Kazakh news translation task at WMT 2019. Our submissions take advantage of monolingual data and parallel data from other language pairs by means of iterative backtranslation, pivot backtranslation and transfer learning. They also use linguistic information in two ways: morphological segmentation of Kazakh text, and integration of the output of a rule-based machine translation system. Our systems were ranked second in terms of chrF++ despite being built from an ensemble of only 2 independent training runs.
Two techniques provide the fabric of the Cambridge University Engineering Department{'}s (CUED) entry to the WMT19 evaluation campaign: elastic weight consolidation (EWC) and different forms of language modelling (LMs). We report substantial gains by fine-tuning very strong baselines on former WMT test sets using a combination of checkpoint averaging and EWC. A sentence-level Transformer LM and a document-level LM based on a modified Transformer architecture yield further gains. As in previous years, we also extract n-gram probabilities from SMT lattices which can be seen as a source-conditioned n-gram LM.
This paper presents the systems submitted by the University of Groningen to the English{--} Kazakh language pair (both translation directions) for the WMT 2019 news translation task. We explore the potential benefits of (i) morphological segmentation (both unsupervised and rule-based), given the agglutinative nature of Kazakh, (ii) data from two additional languages (Turkish and Russian), given the scarcity of English{--}Kazakh data and (iii) synthetic data, both for the source and for the target language. Our best submissions ranked second for Kazakh→English and third for English→Kazakh in terms of the BLEU automatic evaluation metric.
In this paper we present the University of Helsinki submissions to the WMT 2019 shared news translation task in three language pairs: English-German, English-Finnish and Finnish-English. This year we focused first on cleaning and filtering the training data using multiple data-filtering approaches, resulting in much smaller and cleaner training sets. For English-German we trained both sentence-level transformer models as well as compared different document-level translation approaches. For Finnish-English and English-Finnish we focused on different segmentation approaches and we also included a rule-based system for English-Finnish.
We Microsoft Research Asia made submissions to 11 language directions in the WMT19 news translation tasks. We won the first place for 8 of the 11 directions and the second place for the other three. Our basic systems are built on Transformer, back translation and knowledge distillation. We integrate several of our rececent techniques to enhance the baseline systems: multi-agent dual learning (MADL), masked sequence-to-sequence pre-training (MASS), neural architecture optimization (NAO), and soft contextual data augmentation (SCA).
Machine translation is one of the most popular areas in natural language processing. WMT is a conference to assess the level of machine translation capabilities of organizations around the world, which is the evaluation activity we participated in. In this review we participated in a two-way translation track from Russian to English and English to Russian. We used official training data, 38 million parallel corpora, and 10 million monolingual corpora. The overall framework we use is the Transformer neural machine translation model, supplemented by data filtering, post-processing, reordering and other related processing methods. The BLEU value of our final translation result from Russian to English is 38.7, ranking 5th, while from English to Russian is 27.8, ranking 10th.
This paper describes the DFKI-NMT submission to the WMT19 News translation task. We participated in both English-to-German and German-to-English directions. We trained Transformer models and adopted various techniques for effectively training our models, including data selection, back-translation and in-domain fine-tuning. We give a detailed analysis of the performance of our system.
We present the results of the application of a grammatical test suite for German-to-English MT on the systems submitted at WMT19, with a detailed analysis for 107 phenomena organized in 14 categories. The systems still translate wrong one out of four test items in average. Low performance is indicated for idioms, modals, pseudo-clefts, multi-word expressions and verb valency. When compared to last year, there has been a improvement of function words, non verbal agreement and punctuation. More detailed conclusions about particular systems and phenomena are also presented.
As the quality of machine translation rises and neural machine translation (NMT) is moving from sentence to document level translations, it is becoming increasingly difficult to evaluate the output of translation systems. We provide a test suite for WMT19 aimed at assessing discourse phenomena of MT systems participating in the News Translation Task. We have manually checked the outputs and identified types of translation errors that are relevant to document-level translation.
We present a test set for evaluating an MT system{'}s capability to translate ambiguous conjunctions depending on the sentence structure. We concentrate on the English conjunction {``}but{''} and its French equivalent {``}mais{''} which can be translated into two different German conjunctions. We evaluate all English-to-German and French-to-German submissions to the WMT 2019 shared translation task. The evaluation is done mainly automatically, with additional fast manual inspection of unclear cases. All systems almost perfectly recognise the target conjunction {``}aber{''}, whereas accuracies for the other target conjunction {``}sondern{''} range from 78{\%} to 97{\%}, and the errors are mostly caused by replacing it with the alternative conjunction {``}aber{''}. The best performing system for both language pairs is a multilingual Transformer {``}TartuNLP{''} system trained on all WMT 2019 language pairs which use the Latin script, indicating that the multilingual approach is beneficial for conjunction disambiguation. As for other system features, such as using synthetic back-translated data, context-aware, hybrid, etc., no particular (dis)advantages can be observed. Qualitative manual inspection of translation hypotheses shown that highly ranked systems generally produce translations with high adequacy and fluency, meaning that these systems are not only capable of capturing the right conjunction whereas the rest of the translation hypothesis is poor. On the other hand, the low ranked systems generally exhibit lower fluency and poor adequacy.
Supervised Neural Machine Translation (NMT) systems currently achieve impressive translation quality for many language pairs. One of the key features of a correct translation is the ability to perform word sense disambiguation (WSD), i.e., to translate an ambiguous word with its correct sense. Existing evaluation benchmarks on WSD capabilities of translation systems rely heavily on manual work and cover only few language pairs and few word types. We present MuCoW, a multilingual contrastive test suite that covers 16 language pairs with more than 200 thousand contrastive sentence pairs, automatically built from word-aligned parallel corpora and the wide-coverage multilingual sense inventory of BabelNet. We evaluate the quality of the ambiguity lexicons and of the resulting test suite on all submissions from 9 language pairs presented in the WMT19 news shared translation task, plus on other 5 language pairs using NMT pretrained models. The MuCoW test suite is available at http://github.com/Helsinki-NLP/MuCoW.
This paper describes a machine translation test set of documents from the auditing domain and its use as one of the {``}test suites{''} in the WMT19 News Translation Task for translation directions involving Czech, English and German. Our evaluation suggests that current MT systems optimized for the general news domain can perform quite well even in the particular domain of audit reports. The detailed manual evaluation however indicates that deep factual knowledge of the domain is necessary. For the naked eye of a non-expert, translations by many systems seem almost perfect and automatic MT evaluation with one reference is practically useless for considering these details. Furthermore, we show on a sample document from the domain of agreements that even the best systems completely fail in preserving the semantics of the agreement, namely the identity of the parties.
We propose WMDO, a metric based on distance between distributions in the semantic vector space. Matching in the semantic space has been investigated for translation evaluation, but the constraints of a translation{'}s word order have not been fully explored. Building on the Word Mover{'}s Distance metric and various word embeddings, we introduce a fragmentation penalty to account for fluency of a translation. This word order extension is shown to perform better than standard WMD, with promising results against other types of metrics.
We present YiSi, a unified automatic semantic machine translation quality evaluation and estimation metric for languages with different levels of available resources. Underneath the interface with different language resources settings, YiSi uses the same representation for the two sentences in assessment. Besides, we show significant improvement in the correlation of YiSi-1{'}s scores with human judgment is made by using contextual embeddings in multilingual BERT{--}Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers to evaluate lexical semantic similarity. YiSi is open source and publicly available.
Over the years a number of machine translation metrics have been developed in order to evaluate the accuracy and quality of machine-generated translations. Metrics such as BLEU and TER have been used for decades. However, with the rapid progress of machine translation systems, the need for better metrics is growing. This paper proposes an extension of the edit distance, which achieves better human correlation, whilst remaining fast, flexible and easy to understand.
This paper describes the systems that we submitted to the WMT19 Machine Translation robustness task. This task aims to improve MT{'}s robustness to noise found on social media, like informal language, spelling mistakes and other orthographic variations. The organizers provide parallel data extracted from a social media website in two language pairs: French-English and Japanese-English (one for each language direction). The goal is to obtain the best scores on unseen test sets from the same source, according to automatic metrics (BLEU) and human evaluation. We propose one single and one ensemble system for each translation direction. Our ensemble models ranked first in all language pairs, according to BLEU evaluation. We discuss the pre-processing choices that we made, and present our solutions for robustness to noise and domain adaptation.
In this paper we describe our neural machine translation (NMT) systems for Japanese↔English translation which we submitted to the translation robustness task. We focused on leveraging transfer learning via fine tuning to improve translation quality. We used a fairly well established domain adaptation technique called Mixed Fine Tuning (MFT) (Chu et. al., 2017) to improve translation quality for Japanese↔English. We also trained bi-directional NMT models instead of uni-directional ones as the former are known to be quite robust, especially in low-resource scenarios. However, given the noisy nature of the in-domain training data, the improvements we obtained are rather modest.
This paper describes the systems of Fraunhofer FOKUS for the WMT 2019 machine translation robustness task. We have made submissions to the EN-FR, FR-EN, and JA-EN language pairs. The first two were made with a baseline translator, trained on clean data for the WMT 2019 biomedical translation task. These baselines improved over the baselines from the MTNT paper by 2 to 4 BLEU points, but where not trained on the same data. The last one used the same model class and training procedure, with induced typos in the training data to increase the model robustness.
This paper describes NTT{'}s submission to the WMT19 robustness task. This task mainly focuses on translating noisy text (e.g., posts on Twitter), which presents different difficulties from typical translation tasks such as news. Our submission combined techniques including utilization of a synthetic corpus, domain adaptation, and a placeholder mechanism, which significantly improved over the previous baseline. Experimental results revealed the placeholder mechanism, which temporarily replaces the non-standard tokens including emojis and emoticons with special placeholder tokens during translation, improves translation accuracy even with noisy texts.
We describe the JHU submissions to the French{--}English, Japanese{--}English, and English{--}Japanese Robustness Task at WMT 2019. Our goal was to evaluate the performance of baseline systems on both the official noisy test set as well as news data, in order to ensure that performance gains in the latter did not come at the expense of general-domain performance. To this end, we built straightforward 6-layer Transformer models and experimented with a handful of variables including subword processing (FR→EN) and a handful of hyperparameters settings (JA↔EN). As expected, our systems performed reasonably.
Despite their original goal to jointly learn to align and translate, Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models, especially Transformer, are often perceived as not learning interpretable word alignments. In this paper, we show that NMT models do learn interpretable word alignments, which could only be revealed with proper interpretation methods. We propose a series of such methods that are model-agnostic, are able to be applied either offline or online, and do not require parameter update or architectural change. We show that under the force decoding setup, the alignments induced by our interpretation method are of better quality than fast-align for some systems, and when performing free decoding, they agree well with the alignments induced by automatic alignment tools.
An important concern in training multilingual neural machine translation (NMT) is to translate between language pairs unseen during training, i.e zero-shot translation. Improving this ability kills two birds with one stone by providing an alternative to pivot translation which also allows us to better understand how the model captures information between languages. In this work, we carried out an investigation on this capability of the multilingual NMT models. First, we intentionally create an encoder architecture which is independent with respect to the source language. Such experiments shed light on the ability of NMT encoders to learn multilingual representations, in general. Based on such proof of concept, we were able to design regularization methods into the standard Transformer model, so that the whole architecture becomes more robust in zero-shot conditions. We investigated the behaviour of such models on the standard IWSLT 2017 multilingual dataset. We achieved an average improvement of 2.23 BLEU points across 12 language pairs compared to the zero-shot performance of a state-of-the-art multilingual system. Additionally, we carry out further experiments in which the effect is confirmed even for language pairs with multiple intermediate pivots.
Transformer-based neural machine translation (NMT) has recently achieved state-of-the-art performance on many machine translation tasks. However, recent work (Raganato and Tiedemann, 2018; Tang et al., 2018; Tran et al., 2018) has indicated that Transformer models may not learn syntactic structures as well as their recurrent neural network-based counterparts, particularly in low-resource cases. In this paper, we incorporate constituency parse information into a Transformer NMT model. We leverage linearized parses of the source training sentences in order to inject syntax into the Transformer architecture without modifying it. We introduce two methods: a multi-task machine translation and parsing model with a single encoder and decoder, and a mixed encoder model that learns to translate directly from parsed and unparsed source sentences. We evaluate our methods on low-resource translation from English into twenty target languages, showing consistent improvements of 1.3 BLEU on average across diverse target languages for the multi-task technique. We further evaluate the models on full-scale WMT tasks, finding that the multi-task model aids low- and medium-resource NMT but degenerates high-resource English-German translation.
In this work, we train an Automatic Post-Editing (APE) model and use it to reveal biases in standard MT evaluation procedures. The goal of our APE model is to correct typical errors introduced by the translation process, and convert the {``}translationese{''} output into natural text. Our APE model is trained entirely on monolingual data that has been round-trip translated through English, to mimic errors that are similar to the ones introduced by NMT. We apply our model to the output of existing NMT systems, and demonstrate that, while the human-judged quality improves in all cases, BLEU scores drop with forward-translated test sets. We verify these results for the WMT18 English to German, WMT15 English to French, and WMT16 English to Romanian tasks. Furthermore, we selectively apply our APE model on the output of the top submissions of the most recent WMT evaluation campaigns. We see quality improvements on all tasks of up to 2.5 BLEU points.
Back-translation {---} data augmentation by translating target monolingual data {---} is a crucial component in modern neural machine translation (NMT). In this work, we reformulate back-translation in the scope of cross-entropy optimization of an NMT model, clarifying its underlying mathematical assumptions and approximations beyond its heuristic usage. Our formulation covers broader synthetic data generation schemes, including sampling from a target-to-source NMT model. With this formulation, we point out fundamental problems of the sampling-based approaches and propose to remedy them by (i) disabling label smoothing for the target-to-source model and (ii) sampling from a restricted search space. Our statements are investigated on the WMT 2018 German {\textless}-{\textgreater} English news translation task.
Recent work in Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has shown significant quality gains from noised-beam decoding during back-translation, a method to generate synthetic parallel data. We show that the main role of such synthetic noise is not to diversify the source side, as previously suggested, but simply to indicate to the model that the given source is synthetic. We propose a simpler alternative to noising techniques, consisting of tagging back-translated source sentences with an extra token. Our results on WMT outperform noised back-translation in English-Romanian and match performance on English-German, redefining the state-of-the-art on the former.
We explore using multilingual document embeddings for nearest neighbor mining of parallel data. Three document-level representations are investigated: (i) document embeddings generated by simply averaging multilingual sentence embeddings; (ii) a neural bag-of-words (BoW) document encoding model; (iii) a hierarchical multilingual document encoder (HiDE) that builds on our sentence-level model. The results show document embeddings derived from sentence-level averaging are surprisingly effective for clean datasets, but suggest models trained hierarchically at the document-level are more effective on noisy data. Analysis experiments demonstrate our hierarchical models are very robust to variations in the underlying sentence embedding quality. Using document embeddings trained with HiDE achieves the state-of-the-art on United Nations (UN) parallel document mining, 94.9{\%} P@1 for en-fr and 97.3{\%} P@1 for en-es.
In this work, we customized a neural machine translation system for translation of subtitles in the domain of entertainment. The neural translation model was adapted to the subtitling content and style and extended by a simple, yet effective technique for utilizing inter-sentence context for short sentences such as dialog turns. The main contribution of the paper is a novel subtitle segmentation algorithm that predicts the end of a subtitle line given the previous word-level context using a recurrent neural network learned from human segmentation decisions. This model is combined with subtitle length and duration constraints established in the subtitling industry. We conducted a thorough human evaluation with two post-editors (English-to-Spanish translation of a documentary and a sitcom). It showed a notable productivity increase of up to 37{\%} as compared to translating from scratch and significant reductions in human translation edit rate in comparison with the post-editing of the baseline non-adapted system without a learned segmentation model.
Translation systems aim to perform a meaning-preserving conversion of linguistic material (typically text but also speech) from a source to a target language (and, to a lesser degree, the corresponding socio-cultural contexts). Dubbing, i.e., the lip-synchronous translation and revoicing of speech adds to this constraints about the close matching of phonetic and resulting visemic synchrony characteristics of source and target material. There is an inherent conflict between a translation{'}s meaning preservation and {`}dubbability{'} and the resulting trade-off can be controlled by weighing the synchrony constraints. We introduce our work, which to the best of our knowledge is the first of its kind, on integrating synchrony constraints into the machine translation paradigm. We present first results for the integration of synchrony constraints into encoder decoder-based neural machine translation and show that considerably more {`}dubbable{'} translations can be achieved with only a small impact on BLEU score, and dubbability improves more steeply than BLEU degrades.
The transformer is a state-of-the-art neural translation model that uses attention to iteratively refine lexical representations with information drawn from the surrounding context. Lexical features are fed into the first layer and propagated through a deep network of hidden layers. We argue that the need to represent and propagate lexical features in each layer limits the model{'}s capacity for learning and representing other information relevant to the task. To alleviate this bottleneck, we introduce gated shortcut connections between the embedding layer and each subsequent layer within the encoder and decoder. This enables the model to access relevant lexical content dynamically, without expending limited resources on storing it within intermediate states. We show that the proposed modification yields consistent improvements over a baseline transformer on standard WMT translation tasks in 5 translation directions (0.9 BLEU on average) and reduces the amount of lexical information passed along the hidden layers. We furthermore evaluate different ways to integrate lexical connections into the transformer architecture and present ablation experiments exploring the effect of proposed shortcuts on model behavior.
This paper presents a high-quality multilingual dataset for the documentation domain to advance research on localization of structured text. Unlike widely-used datasets for translation of plain text, we collect XML-structured parallel text segments from the online documentation for an enterprise software platform. These Web pages have been professionally translated from English into 16 languages and maintained by domain experts, and around 100,000 text segments are available for each language pair. We build and evaluate translation models for seven target languages from English, with several different copy mechanisms and an XML-constrained beam search. We also experiment with a non-English pair to show that our dataset has the potential to explicitly enable 17 {\mbox{$\times$}} 16 translation settings. Our experiments show that learning to translate with the XML tags improves translation accuracy, and the beam search accurately generates XML structures. We also discuss trade-offs of using the copy mechanisms by focusing on translation of numerical words and named entities. We further provide a detailed human analysis of gaps between the model output and human translations for real-world applications, including suitability for post-editing.
Multiword expressions (MWEs) feature prominently in the mental lexicon of native speakers (Jackendoff, 1997) in all languages and domains, from informal to technical contexts (Biber et al., 1999) with about four MWEs being produced per minute of discourse (Glucksberg, 1989). MWEs come in all shapes and forms, including idioms like rock the boat (as cause problems or disturb a situation) and compound nouns like monkey business (as dishonest behaviour). Their accurate detection and understanding may often require more than knowledge about individual words and how they can be combined (Fillmore, 1979), as they may display various degrees of idiosyncrasy, including lexical, syntactic, semantic and statistical (Sag et al., 2002; Baldwin and Kim, 2010), which provide new challenges and opportunities for language processing (Constant et al., 2017). For instance, while for some combinations the meaning can be inferred from their parts like olive oil (oil made of olives) this is not always the case, as in dark horse (meaning an unknown candidate who unexpectedly succeeds), and when processing a sentence some of the challenges are to identify which words form an expression (Ramisch, 2015), and whether the expression is idiomatic (Cordeiro et al., 2019). In this talk I will give an overview of advances on the identification and treatment of multiword expressions, in particular concentrating on techniques for identifying their degree of idiomaticity.
In this paper we focus on verbal multiword expressions (VMWEs) in Bulgarian and Romanian as reflected in the wordnets of the two languages. The annotation of VMWEs relies on the classification defined within the PARSEME Cost Action. After outlining the properties of various types of VMWEs, a cross-language comparison is drawn, aimed to highlight the similarities and the differences between Bulgarian and Romanian with respect to the lexicalization and distribution of VMWEs. The contribution of this work is in outlining essential features of the description and classification of VMWEs and the cross-language comparison at the lexical level, which is essential for the understanding of the need for uniform annotation guidelines and a viable procedure for validation of the annotation.
We describe work consisting in porting two large German lexical resources into the OntoLex-Lemon model in order to establish complementary interlinkings between them. One resource is OdeNet (Open German WordNet) and the other is a further development of the German version of the MMORPH morphological analyzer. We show how the Multiword Expressions (MWEs) contained in OdeNet can be morphologically specified by the use of the lexical representation and linking features of OntoLex-Lemon, which also support the formulation of restrictions in the usage of such expressions.
We introduce temporally and contextually-aware models for the novel task of predicting unseen but plausible concepts, as conveyed by noun-noun compounds in a time-stamped corpus. We train compositional models on observed compounds, more specifically the composed distributed representations of their constituents across a time-stamped corpus, while giving it corrupted instances (where head or modifier are replaced by a random constituent) as negative evidence. The model captures generalisations over this data and learns what combinations give rise to plausible compounds and which ones do not. After training, we query the model for the plausibility of automatically generated novel combinations and verify whether the classifications are accurate. For our best model, we find that in around 85{\%} of the cases, the novel compounds generated are attested in previously unseen data. An additional estimated 5{\%} are plausible despite not being attested in the recent corpus, based on judgments from independent human raters.
This article describes a dependency-based strategy that uses compositional distributional semantics and cross-lingual word embeddings to translate multiword expressions (MWEs). Our unsupervised approach performs translation as a process of word contextualization by taking into account lexico-syntactic contexts and selectional preferences. This strategy is suited to translate phraseological combinations and phrases whose constituent words are lexically restricted by each other. Several experiments in adjective-noun and verb-object compounds show that mutual contextualization (co-compositionality) clearly outperforms other compositional methods. The paper also contributes with a new freely available dataset of English-Spanish MWEs used to validate the proposed compositional strategy.
A substantial body of research has demonstrated that native speakers are sensitive to the frequencies of multiword sequences (MWS). Here, we ask whether and to what extent intermediate-advanced L2 speakers of English can also develop the sensitivity to the statistics of MWS. To this end, we aimed to replicate the MWS frequency effects found for adult native language speakers based on evidence from self-paced reading and sentence recall tasks in an ecologically more valid eye-tracking study. L2 speakers{'} sensitivity to MWS frequency was evaluated using generalized linear mixed-effects regression with separate models fitted for each of the four dependent measures. Mixed-effects modeling revealed significantly faster processing of sentences containing MWS compared to sentences containing equivalent control items across all eyetracking measures. Taken together, these findings suggest that, in line with emergentist approaches, MWS are important building blocks of language and that similar mechanisms underlie both native and non-native language processing.
The paper presents the characteristics of the predominant types of MultiWord expressions (MWEs) in the BulTreeBank WordNet {--} BTB-WN. Their distribution in BTB-WN is discussed with respect to the overall hierarchical organization of the lexical resource. Also, a catena-based modeling is proposed for handling the issues of lexical semantics of MWEs.
Building meaningful representations of noun compounds is not trivial since many of them scarcely appear in the corpus. To that end, composition functions approximate the distributional representation of a noun compound by combining its constituent distributional vectors. In the more general case, phrase embeddings have been trained by minimizing the distance between the vectors representing paraphrases. We compare various types of noun compound representations, including distributional, compositional, and paraphrase-based representations, through a series of tasks and analyses, and with an extensive number of underlying word embeddings. We find that indeed, in most cases, composition functions produce higher quality representations than distributional ones, and they improve with computational power. No single function performs best in all scenarios, suggesting that a joint training objective may produce improved representations.
In this paper we argue that Frame Semantics (Fillmore, 1982) provides a good framework for semantic modelling of adjective-noun collocations. More specifically, the notion of a frame is rich enough to account for nouns from different semantic classes and to model semantic relations that hold between an adjective and a noun in terms of Frame Elements. We have substantiated these findings by considering a sample of adjective-noun collocations from German such as {``}enger Freund{''} {`}close friend{'} and {``}starker Regen{''} {`}heavy rain{'}. The data sample is taken from different semantic fields identified in the German wordnet GermaNet (Hamp and Feldweg, 1997; Henrich and Hinrichs, 2010). The study is based on the electronic dictionary DWDS (Klein and Geyken, 2010) and uses the collocation extraction tool Wortprofil (Geyken et al., 2009). The FrameNet modelling is based on the online resource available at http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu. Since FrameNets are available for a range of typologically different languages, it is feasible to extend the current case study to other languages.
We propose to tackle the problem of verbal multiword expression (VMWE) identification using a neural graph parsing-based approach. Our solution involves encoding VMWE annotations as labellings of dependency trees and, subsequently, applying a neural network to model the probabilities of different labellings. This strategy can be particularly effective when applied to discontinuous VMWEs and, thanks to dense, pre-trained word vector representations, VMWEs unseen during training. Evaluation of our approach on three PARSEME datasets (German, French, and Polish) shows that it allows to achieve performance on par with the previous state-of-the-art (Al Saied et al., 2018).
An idiom is defined as a non-compositional multiword expression, one whose meaning cannot be deduced from the definitions of the component words. This definition does not explicitly define the compositionality of an idiom{'}s sentiment; this paper aims to determine whether the sentiment of the component words of an idiom is related to the sentiment of that idiom. We use the Dictionary of Affect in Language augmented by WordNet to give each idiom in the Sentiment Lexicon of IDiomatic Expressions (SLIDE) a component-wise sentiment score and compare it to the phrase-level sentiment label crowdsourced by the creators of SLIDE. We find that there is no discernible relation between these two measures of idiom sentiment. This supports the hypothesis that idioms are not compositional for sentiment along with semantics and motivates further work in handling idioms for sentiment analysis.
We report on the ongoing development of IDION, a web resource of richly documented multiword expressions (MWEs) of Modern Greek addressed to the human user and to NLP. IDION contains about 2000 verb MWEs (VMWEs) of which about 850 are fully documented as regards their syntactic flexibility, their semantics and the semantic relations with other VMWEs. Sets of synonymous MWEs are defined in a bottom-up manner revealing the conceptual organization of the MG VMWE domain.
Neologism detection is a key task in the constructing of lexical resources and has wider implications for NLP, however the identification of multiword neologisms has received little attention. In this paper, we show that we can effectively identify the distinction between compositional and non-compositional adjective-noun pairs by using pretrained language models and comparing this with individual word embeddings. Our results show that the use of these models significantly improves over baseline linguistic features, however the combination with linguistic features still further improves the results, suggesting the strength of a hybrid approach.
This article focuses on the lemmatization of multiword expressions (MWEs). We propose a deep encoder-decoder architecture generating for every MWE word its corresponding part in the lemma, based on the internal context of the MWE. The encoder relies on recurrent networks based on (1) the character sequence of the individual words to capture their morphological properties, and (2) the word sequence of the MWE to capture lexical and syntactic properties. The decoder in charge of generating the corresponding part of the lemma for each word of the MWE is based on a classical character-level attention-based recurrent model. Our model is evaluated for Italian, French, Polish and Portuguese and shows good performances except for Polish.
Automatic Term Extraction (ATE) extracts terminology from domain-specific corpora. ATE is used in many NLP tasks, including Computer Assisted Translation, where it is typically applied to individual documents rather than the entire corpus. While corpus-level ATE has been extensively evaluated, it is not obvious how the results transfer to document-level ATE. To fill this gap, we evaluate 16 state-of-the-art ATE methods on full-length documents from three different domains, on both corpus and document levels. Unlike existing studies, our evaluation is more realistic as we take into account all gold terms. We show that no single method is best in corpus-level ATE, but C-Value and KeyConceptRelatendess surpass others in document-level ATE.
Recent developments in deep learning have prompted a surge of interest in the application of multitask and transfer learning to NLP problems. In this study, we explore for the first time, the application of transfer learning (TRL) and multitask learning (MTL) to the identification of Multiword Expressions (MWEs). For MTL, we exploit the shared syntactic information between MWE and dependency parsing models to jointly train a single model on both tasks. We specifically predict two types of labels: MWE and dependency parse. Our neural MTL architecture utilises the supervision of dependency parsing in lower layers and predicts MWE tags in upper layers. In the TRL scenario, we overcome the scarcity of data by learning a model on a larger MWE dataset and transferring the knowledge to a resource-poor setting in another language. In both scenarios, the resulting models achieved higher performance compared to standard neural approaches.
This paper describes the categorisation of Irish MWEs, and the construction of the first version of a lexicon of Irish MWEs for NLP purposes (Ilfhocail, meaning {`}Multiwords{'}), collected from a number of resources. For the purposes of quality assurance, 530 entries of this lexicon were examined and manually annotated for POS information and MWE category.
Assessing how individuals perform different activities is key information for modeling health states of individuals and populations. Descriptions of activity performance in clinical free text are complex, including syntactic negation and similarities to textual entailment tasks. We explore a variety of methods for the novel task of classifying four types of assertions about activity performance: Able, Unable, Unclear, and None (no information). We find that ensembling an SVM trained with lexical features and a CNN achieves 77.9{\%} macro F1 score on our task, and yields nearly 80{\%} recall on the rare Unclear and Unable samples. Finally, we highlight several challenges in classifying performance assertions, including capturing information about sources of assistance, incorporating syntactic structure and negation scope, and handling new modalities at test time. Our findings establish a strong baseline for this novel task, and identify intriguing areas for further research.
The objective of this work is to develop an automated diagnosis system that is able to predict the probability of appendicitis given a free-text emergency department (ED) note and additional structured information (e.g., lab test results). Our clinical corpus consists of about 180,000 ED notes based on ten years of patient visits to the Accident and Emergency (A{\&}E) Department of the National University Hospital (NUH), Singapore. We propose a novel neural network approach that learns to diagnose acute appendicitis based on doctors{'} free-text ED notes without any feature engineering. On a test set of 2,000 ED notes with equal number of appendicitis (positive) and non-appendicitis (negative) diagnosis and in which all the negative ED notes only consist of abdominal-related diagnosis, our model is able to achieve a promising F{\_}0.5-score of 0.895 while ED doctors achieve F{\_}0.5-score of 0.900. Visualization shows that our model is able to learn important features, signs, and symptoms of patients from unstructured free-text ED notes, which will help doctors to make better diagnosis.
This paper proposes a dataset and method for automatically generating paraphrases for clinical questions relating to patient-specific information in electronic health records (EHRs). Crowdsourcing is used to collect 10,578 unique questions across 946 semantically distinct paraphrase clusters. This corpus is then used with a deep learning-based question paraphrasing method utilizing variational autoencoder and LSTM encoder/decoder. The ultimate use of such a method is to improve the performance of automatic question answering methods for EHRs.
Systematic comparison of methods for relation extraction (RE) is difficult because many experiments in the field are not described precisely enough to be completely reproducible and many papers fail to report ablation studies that would highlight the relative contributions of their various combined techniques. In this work, we build a unifying framework for RE, applying this on three highly used datasets (from the general, biomedical and clinical domains) with the ability to be extendable to new datasets. By performing a systematic exploration of modeling, pre-processing and training methodologies, we find that choices of preprocessing are a large contributor performance and that omission of such information can further hinder fair comparison. Other insights from our exploration allow us to provide recommendations for future research in this area.
Despite recent advances in the application of deep neural networks to various kinds of medical data, extracting information from unstructured textual sources remains a challenging task. The challenges of training and interpreting document classification models are amplified when dealing with small and highly technical datasets, as are common in the clinical domain. Using a dataset of de-identified clinical letters gathered at a memory clinic, we construct several recurrent neural network models for letter classification, and evaluate them on their ability to build meaningful representations of the documents and predict patients{'} diagnoses. Additionally, we probe sentence embedding models in order to build a human-interpretable representation of the neural network{'}s features, using a simple and intuitive technique based on perturbative approaches to sentence importance. In addition to showing which sentences in a document are most informative about the patient{'}s condition, this method reveals the types of sentences that lead the model to make incorrect diagnoses. Furthermore, we identify clusters of sentences in the embedding space that correlate strongly with importance scores for each clinical diagnosis class.
Inspired by the success of the General Language Understanding Evaluation benchmark, we introduce the Biomedical Language Understanding Evaluation (BLUE) benchmark to facilitate research in the development of pre-training language representations in the biomedicine domain. The benchmark consists of five tasks with ten datasets that cover both biomedical and clinical texts with different dataset sizes and difficulties. We also evaluate several baselines based on BERT and ELMo and find that the BERT model pre-trained on PubMed abstracts and MIMIC-III clinical notes achieves the best results. We make the datasets, pre-trained models, and codes publicly available at https://github.com/ ncbi-nlp/BLUE{\_}Benchmark.
The goal of this work is to utilize Electronic Medical Record (EMR) data for real-time Clinical Decision Support (CDS). We present a deep learning approach to combining in real time available diagnosis codes (ICD codes) and free-text notes: Patient Context Vectors. Patient Context Vectors are created by averaging ICD code embeddings, and by predicting the same from free-text notes via a Convolutional Neural Network. The Patient Context Vectors were then simply appended to available structured data (vital signs and lab results) to build prediction models for a specific condition. Experiments on predicting ARDS, a rare and complex condition, demonstrate the utility of Patient Context Vectors as a means of summarizing the patient history and overall condition, and improve significantly the prediction model results.
In an era when large amounts of data are generated daily in various fields, the biomedical field among others, linguistic resources can be exploited for various tasks of Natural Language Processing. Moreover, increasing number of biomedical documents are available in languages other than English. To be able to extract information from natural language free text resources, methods and tools are needed for a variety of languages. This paper presents the creation of the MoNERo corpus, a gold standard biomedical corpus for Romanian, annotated with both part of speech tags and named entities. MoNERo comprises 154,825 morphologically annotated tokens and 23,188 entity annotations belonging to four entity semantic groups corresponding to UMLS Semantic Groups.
Domain adaptation remains one of the most challenging aspects in the wide-spread use of Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) systems. Current state-of-the-art methods are typically trained on large-scale datasets, but their performances do not directly transfer to low-resource domain-specific settings. In this paper, we propose two approaches for domain adaptation in the biological domain that involves pre-training LSTM-CRF based on existing large-scale datasets and adapting it for a low-resource corpus of biological processes. Our first approach defines a mapping between the source labels and the target labels, and the other approach modifies the final CRF layer in sequence-labeling neural network architecture. We perform our experiments on ProcessBank dataset which contains less than 200 paragraphs on biological processes. We improve over the previous state-of-the-art system on this dataset by 21 F1 points. We also show that, by incorporating event-event relationship in ProcessBank, we are able to achieve an additional 2.6 F1 gain, giving us possible insights into how to improve SRL systems for biological process using richer annotations.
Automatic identification and expansion of ambiguous abbreviations are essential for biomedical natural language processing applications, such as information retrieval and question answering systems. In this paper, we present DEep Contextualized Biomedical Abbreviation Expansion (DECBAE) model. DECBAE automatically collects substantial and relatively clean annotated contexts for 950 ambiguous abbreviations from PubMed abstracts using a simple heuristic. Then it utilizes BioELMo to extract the contextualized features of words, and feed those features to abbreviation-specific bidirectional LSTMs, where the hidden states of the ambiguous abbreviations are used to assign the exact definitions. Our DECBAE model outperforms other baselines by large margins, achieving average accuracy of 0.961 and macro-F1 of 0.917 on the dataset. It also surpasses human performance for expanding a sample abbreviation, and remains robust in imbalanced, low-resources and clinical settings.
Patients and their families often require a better understanding of medical information provided by doctors. We currently address this issue by improving the identification of difficult to understand medical words. We introduce novel embeddings received from RNN - FrnnMUTE (French RNN Medical Understandability Text Embeddings) which allow to reach up to 87.0 F1 score in identification of difficult words. We also note that adding pre-trained FastText word embeddings to the feature set substantially improves the performance of the model which classifies words according to their difficulty. We study the generalizability of different models through three cross-validation scenarios which allow testing classifiers in real-world conditions: understanding of medical words by new users, and classification of new unseen words by the automatic models. The RNN - FrnnMUTE embeddings and the categorization code are being made available for the research.
Systematic reviews are important in evidence based medicine, but are expensive to produce. Automating or semi-automating the data extraction of index test, target condition, and reference standard from articles has the potential to decrease the cost of conducting systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy, but relevant training data is not available. We create a distantly supervised dataset of approximately 90,000 sentences, and let two experts manually annotate a small subset of around 1,000 sentences for evaluation. We evaluate the performance of BioBERT and logistic regression for ranking the sentences, and compare the performance for distant and direct supervision. Our results suggest that distant supervision can work as well as, or better than direct supervision on this problem, and that distantly trained models can perform as well as, or better than human annotators.
In this paper, we address the problem of automatically constructing a relevant corpus of scientific articles about food-drug interactions. There is a growing number of scientific publications that describe food-drug interactions but currently building a high-coverage corpus that can be used for information extraction purposes is not trivial. We investigate several methods for automating the query selection process using an expert-curated corpus of food-drug interactions. Our experiments show that index term features along with a decision tree classifier are the best approach for this task and that feature selection approaches and in particular gain ratio outperform frequency-based methods for query selection.
Verbs play a fundamental role in many biomed-ical tasks and applications such as relation and event extraction. We hypothesize that performance on many downstream tasks can be improved by aligning the input pretrained embeddings according to semantic verb classes.In this work, we show that by using semantic clusters for verbs, a large lexicon of verbclasses derived from biomedical literature, weare able to improve the performance of common pretrained embeddings in downstream tasks by retrofitting them to verb classes. We present a simple and computationally efficient approach using a widely-available {``}off-the-shelf{''} retrofitting algorithm to align pretrained embeddings according to semantic verb clusters. We achieve state-of-the-art results on text classification and relation extraction tasks.
Distributed representations of text can be used as features when training a statistical classifier. These representations may be created as a composition of word vectors or as context-based sentence vectors. We compare the two kinds of representations (word versus context) for three classification problems: influenza infection classification, drug usage classification and personal health mention classification. For statistical classifiers trained for each of these problems, context-based representations based on ELMo, Universal Sentence Encoder, Neural-Net Language Model and FLAIR are better than Word2Vec, GloVe and the two adapted using the MESH ontology. There is an improvement of 2-4{\%} in the accuracy when these context-based representations are used instead of word-based representations.
Knowledge base construction is crucial for summarising, understanding and inferring relationships between biomedical entities. However, for many practical applications such as drug discovery, the scarcity of relevant facts (e.g. gene X is therapeutic target for disease Y) severely limits a domain expert{'}s ability to create a usable knowledge base, either directly or by training a relation extraction model. In this paper, we present a simple and effective method of extracting new facts with a pre-specified binary relationship type from the biomedical literature, without requiring any training data or hand-crafted rules. Our system discovers, ranks and presents the most salient patterns to domain experts in an interpretable form. By marking patterns as compatible with the desired relationship type, experts indirectly batch-annotate candidate pairs whose relationship is expressed with such patterns in the literature. Even with a complete absence of seed data, experts are able to discover thousands of high-quality pairs with the desired relationship within minutes. When a small number of relevant pairs do exist - even when their relationship is more general (e.g. gene X is biologically associated with disease Y) than the relationship of interest - our system leverages them in order to i) learn a better ranking of the patterns to be annotated or ii) generate weakly labelled pairs in a fully automated manner. We evaluate our method both intrinsically and via a downstream knowledge base completion task, and show that it is an effective way of constructing knowledge bases when few or no relevant facts are already available.
We report the work-in-progress of collecting MedLexSp, an unified medical lexicon for the Spanish language, featuring terms and inflected word forms mapped to Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) Concept Unique Identifiers (CUIs), semantic types and groups. First, we leveraged a list of term lemmas and forms from a previous project, and mapped them to UMLS terms and CUIs. To enrich the lexicon, we used both domain-corpora (e.g. Summaries of Product Characteristics and MedlinePlus) and natural language processing techniques such as string distance methods or generation of syntactic variants of multi-word terms. We also added term variants by mapping their CUIs to missing items available in the Spanish versions of standard thesauri (e.g. Medical Subject Headings and World Health Organization Adverse Drug Reactions terminology). We enhanced the vocabulary coverage by gathering missing terms from resources such as the Anatomical Therapeutical Classification, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Dictionary of Cancer Terms, OrphaData, or the Nomencl{\'a}tor de Prescripci{\'o}n for drug names. Part-of-Speech information is being included in the lexicon, and the current version amounts up to 76 454 lemmas and 203 043 inflected forms (including conjugated verbs, number and gender variants), corresponding to 30 647 UMLS CUIs. MedLexSp is distributed freely for research purposes.
The goal of text classification is to automatically assign categories to documents. Deep learning automatically learns effective features from data instead of adopting human-designed features. In this paper, we focus specifically on biomedical document classification using a deep learning approach. We present a novel multichannel TextCNN model for MeSH term indexing. Beyond the normal use of the text from the abstract and title for model training, we also consider figure and table captions, as well as paragraphs associated with the figures and tables. We demonstrate that these latter text sources are important feature sources for our method. A new dataset consisting of these text segments curated from 257,590 full text articles together with the articles{'} MEDLINE/PubMed MeSH terms is publicly available.
Automatic extraction of relations and interactions between biological entities from scientific literature remains an extremely challenging problem in biomedical information extraction and natural language processing in general. One of the reasons for slow progress is the relative scarcity of standardized and publicly available benchmarks. In this paper we introduce BioRelEx, a new dataset of fully annotated sentences from biomedical literature that capture \textit{binding} interactions between proteins and/or biomolecules. To foster reproducible research on the interaction extraction task, we define a precise and transparent evaluation process, tools for error analysis and significance tests. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments to evaluate several baselines, including SciIE, a recently introduced neural multi-task architecture that has demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on several tasks.
This paper describes a natural language processing (NLP) approach to extracting lactation-specific drug information from two sources: FDA-mandated drug labels and the NLM Drugs and Lactation Database (LactMed). A frame semantic approach is utilized, and the paper describes the selected frames, their annotation on a set of 900 sections from drug labels and LactMed articles, and the NLP system to extract such frame instances automatically. The ultimate goal of the project is to use such a system to identify discrepancies in lactation-related drug information between these resources.
To automatically analyse complex trajectory information enclosed in clinical text (e.g. timing of symptoms, duration of treatment), it is important to understand the related temporal aspects, anchoring each event on an absolute point in time. In the clinical domain, few temporally annotated corpora are currently available. Moreover, underlying annotation schemas - which mainly rely on the TimeML standard - are not necessarily easily applicable for applications such as patient timeline reconstruction. In this work, we investigated how temporal information is documented in clinical text by annotating a corpus of medical reports with time expressions (TIMEXes), based on TimeML. The developed corpus is available to the NLP community. Starting from our annotations, we analysed the suitability of the TimeML TIMEX schema for capturing timeline information, identifying challenges and possible solutions. As a result, we propose a novel annotation schema that could be useful for timeline reconstruction: CALendar EXpression (CALEX).
The automatic processing of clinical documents, such as Electronic Health Records (EHRs), could benefit substantially from the enrichment of medical terminologies with terms encountered in clinical practice. To integrate such terms into existing knowledge sources, they must be linked to corresponding concepts. We present a method for the semantic categorization of clinical terms based on their surface form. We find that features based on sublanguage properties can provide valuable cues for the classification of term variants.
In this paper, we presented an improved methodology to extract PIO elements, from abstracts of medical papers, that reduces ambiguity. The proposed technique was used to build a dataset of PIO elements that we call PICONET. We further proposed a model of PIO elements classification using state of the art BERT embedding. In addition, we investigated a contextualized embedding, BioBERT, trained on medical corpora. It has been found that using the BioBERT embedding improved the classification accuracy, outperforming the BERT-based model. This result reinforces the idea of the importance of embedding contextualization in subsequent classification tasks in this specific context.Furthermore, to enhance the accuracy of the model, we have investigated an ensemble method based on the LGBM algorithm. We trained the LGBM model, with the above models as base learners, to learn a linear combination of the predicted probabilities for the 3 classes with the TF-IDF score and the QIEF that optimizes the classification. The results indicate that these text features were good features to consider in order to boost the deeply contextualized classification model. We compared the performance of the classifier when using the features with one of the base learners and the case where we combine the base learners along with the features. We obtained the highest score in terms of AUC when we combine the base learners.The present work resulted in the creation of a PIO element dataset, PICONET, and a classification tool. These constitute and important component of our system of automatic mining of medical abstracts. We intend to extend the dataset to full medical articles. The model will be modified to take into account the higher complexity of full text data and more efficient features for model boosting will be investigated.
Having in mind that different languages might present different challenges, this paper presents the following contributions to the area of Information Extraction from clinical text, targeting the Portuguese language: a collection of 281 clinical texts in this language, with manually-annotated named entities; word embeddings trained in a larger collection of similar texts; results of using BiLSTM-CRF neural networks for named entity recognition on the annotated collection, including a comparison of using in-domain or out-of-domain word embeddings in this task. Although learned with much less data, performance is higher when using in-domain embeddings. When tested in 20 independent clinical texts, this model achieved better results than a model using larger out-of-domain embeddings.
We present two models for combining word and character embeddings for cause-of-death classification of verbal autopsy reports using the text of the narratives. We find that for smaller datasets (500 to 1000 records), adding character information to the model improves classification, making character-based CNNs a promising method for automated verbal autopsy coding.
A major obstacle to the development of Natural Language Processing (NLP) methods in the biomedical domain is data accessibility. This problem can be addressed by generating medical data artificially. Most previous studies have focused on the generation of short clinical text, and evaluation of the data utility has been limited. We propose a generic methodology to guide the generation of clinical text with key phrases. We use the artificial data as additional training data in two key biomedical NLP tasks: text classification and temporal relation extraction. We show that artificially generated training data used in conjunction with real training data can lead to performance boosts for data-greedy neural network algorithms. We also demonstrate the usefulness of the generated data for NLP setups where it fully replaces real training data.
Question answering (QA) is a challenging task in natural language processing (NLP), especially when it is applied to specific domains. While models trained in the general domain can be adapted to a new target domain, their performance often degrades significantly due to domain mismatch. Alternatively, one can require a large amount of domain-specific QA data, but such data are rare, especially for the medical domain. In this study, we first collect a large-scale Chinese medical QA corpus called ChiMed; second we annotate a small fraction of the corpus to check the quality of the answers; third, we extract two datasets from the corpus and use them for the relevancy prediction task and the adoption prediction task. Several benchmark models are applied to the datasets, producing good results for both tasks.
The text of clinical notes can be a valuable source of patient information and clinical assessments. Historically, the primary approach for exploiting clinical notes has been information extraction: linking spans of text to concepts in a detailed domain ontology. However, recent work has demonstrated the potential of supervised machine learning to extract document-level codes directly from the raw text of clinical notes. We propose to bridge the gap between the two approaches with two novel syntheses: (1) treating extracted concepts as features, which are used to supplement or replace the text of the note; (2) treating extracted concepts as labels, which are used to learn a better representation of the text. Unfortunately, the resulting concepts do not yield performance gains on the document-level clinical coding task. We explore possible explanations and future research directions.
Textual data are useful for accessing expert information. Yet, since the texts are representative of distinct language uses, it is necessary to build specific corpora in order to be able to design suitable NLP tools. In some domains, such as medical domain, it may be complicated to access the representative textual data and their semantic annotations, while there exists a real need for providing efficient tools and methods. Our paper presents a corpus of clinical cases written in French, and their semantic annotations. Thus, we manually annotated a set of 717 files into four general categories (age, gender, outcome, and origin) for a total number of 2,835 annotations. The values of age, gender, and outcome are normalized. A subset with 70 files has been additionally manually annotated into 27 categories for a total number of 5,198 annotations.
A large percentage of medical information is in unstructured text format in electronic medical record systems. Manual extraction of information from clinical notes is extremely time consuming. Natural language processing has been widely used in recent years for automatic information extraction from medical texts. However, algorithms trained on data from a single healthcare provider are not generalizable and error-prone due to the heterogeneity and uniqueness of medical documents. We develop a two-stage federated natural language processing method that enables utilization of clinical notes from different hospitals or clinics without moving the data, and demonstrate its performance using obesity and comorbities phenotyping as medical task. This approach not only improves the quality of a specific clinical task but also facilitates knowledge progression in the whole healthcare system, which is an essential part of learning health system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first application of federated machine learning in clinical NLP.
We consider the task of detecting sentences that express causality, as a step towards mining causal relations from texts. To bypass the scarcity of causal instances in relation extraction datasets, we exploit transfer learning, namely ELMO and BERT, using a bidirectional GRU with self-attention ( BIGRUATT ) as a baseline. We experiment with both generic public relation extraction datasets and a new biomedical causal sentence detection dataset, a subset of which we make publicly available. We find that transfer learning helps only in very small datasets. With larger datasets, BIGRUATT reaches a performance plateau, then larger datasets and transfer learning do not help.
Network Embedding (NE) methods, which map network nodes to low-dimensional feature vectors, have wide applications in network analysis and bioinformatics. Many existing NE methods rely only on network structure, overlooking other information associated with the nodes, e.g., text describing the nodes. Recent attempts to combine the two sources of information only consider local network structure. We extend NODE2VEC, a well-known NE method that considers broader network structure, to also consider textual node descriptors using recurrent neural encoders. Our method is evaluated on link prediction in two networks derived from UMLS. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach compared to previous work.
The purpose of automatic text simplification is to transform technical or difficult to understand texts into a more friendly version. The semantics must be preserved during this transformation. Automatic text simplification can be done at different levels (lexical, syntactic, semantic, stylistic...) and relies on the corresponding knowledge and resources (lexicon, rules...). Our objective is to propose methods and material for the creation of transformation rules from a small set of parallel sentences differentiated by their technicity. We also propose a typology of transformations and quantify them. We work with French-language data related to the medical domain, although we assume that the method can be exploited on texts in any language and from any domain.
Despite recent advances in natural language processing, many statistical models for processing text perform extremely poorly under domain shift. Processing biomedical and clinical text is a critically important application area of natural language processing, for which there are few robust, practical, publicly available models. This paper describes scispaCy, a new Python library and models for practical biomedical/scientific text processing, which heavily leverages the spaCy library. We detail the performance of two packages of models released in scispaCy and demonstrate their robustness on several tasks and datasets. Models and code are available at https://allenai.github.io/scispacy/.
Chemical patents are an important resource for chemical information. However, few chemical Named Entity Recognition (NER) systems have been evaluated on patent documents, due in part to their structural and linguistic complexity. In this paper, we explore the NER performance of a BiLSTM-CRF model utilising pre-trained word embeddings, character-level word representations and contextualized ELMo word representations for chemical patents. We compare word embeddings pre-trained on biomedical and chemical patent corpora. The effect of tokenizers optimized for the chemical domain on NER performance in chemical patents is also explored. The results on two patent corpora show that contextualized word representations generated from ELMo substantially improve chemical NER performance w.r.t. the current state-of-the-art. We also show that domain-specific resources such as word embeddings trained on chemical patents and chemical-specific tokenizers, have a positive impact on NER performance.
In research best practices can change over time as new discoveries are made and novel methods are implemented. Scientific publications reporting about the latest facts and current state-of-the-art can be possibly outdated after some years or even proved to be false. A publication usually sheds light only on the knowledge of the period it has been published. Thus, the aspect of time can play an essential role in the reliability of the presented information. In Natural Language Processing many methods focus on information extraction from text, such as detecting entities and their relationship to each other. Those methods mostly focus on the facts presented in the text itself and not on the aspects of knowledge which changes over time. This work instead examines the evolution in biomedical knowledge over time using scientific literature in terms of diachronic change. Mainly the usage of temporal and distributional concept representations are explored and evaluated by a proof-of-concept.
Randomized controlled trials assess the effects of an experimental intervention by comparing it to a control intervention with regard to some variables - trial outcomes. Statistical hypothesis testing is used to test if the experimental intervention is superior to the control. Statistical significance is typically reported for the measured outcomes and is an important characteristic of the results. We propose a machine learning approach to automatically extract reported outcomes, significance levels and the relation between them. We annotated a corpus of 663 sentences with 2,552 outcome - significance level relations (1,372 positive and 1,180 negative relations). We compared several classifiers, using a manually crafted feature set, and a number of deep learning models. The best performance (F-measure of 94{\%}) was shown by the BioBERT fine-tuned model.
Parallel deep learning architectures like fine-tuned BERT and MT-DNN, have quickly become the state of the art, bypassing previous deep and shallow learning methods by a large margin. More recently, pre-trained models from large related datasets have been able to perform well on many downstream tasks by just fine-tuning on domain-specific datasets (similar to transfer learning). However, using powerful models on non-trivial tasks, such as ranking and large document classification, still remains a challenge due to input size limitations of parallel architecture and extremely small datasets (insufficient for fine-tuning). In this work, we introduce an end-to-end system, trained in a multi-task setting, to filter and re-rank answers in the medical domain. We use task-specific pre-trained models as deep feature extractors. Our model achieves the highest Spearman{'}s Rho and Mean Reciprocal Rank of 0.338 and 0.9622 respectively, on the ACL-BioNLP workshop MediQA Question Answering shared-task.
This paper describes our competing system to enter the MEDIQA-2019 competition. We use a multi-source transfer learning approach to transfer the knowledge from MT-DNN and SciBERT to natural language understanding tasks in the medical domain. For transfer learning fine-tuning, we use multi-task learning on NLI, RQE and QA tasks on general and medical domains to improve performance. The proposed methods are proved effective for natural language understanding in the medical domain, and we rank the first place on the QA task.
While deep learning techniques have shown promising results in many natural language processing (NLP) tasks, it has not been widely applied to the clinical domain. The lack of large datasets and the pervasive use of domain-specific language (i.e. abbreviations and acronyms) in the clinical domain causes slower progress in NLP tasks than that of the general NLP tasks. To fill this gap, we employ word/subword-level based models that adopt large-scale data-driven methods such as pre-trained language models and transfer learning in analyzing text for the clinical domain. Empirical results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed methods by achieving 90.6{\%} accuracy in medical domain natural language inference task. Furthermore, we inspect the independent strengths of the proposed approaches in quantitative and qualitative manners. This analysis will help researchers to select necessary components in building models for the medical domain.
Natural language inference (NLI) is challenging, especially when it is applied to technical domains such as biomedical settings. In this paper, we propose a hybrid approach to biomedical NLI where different types of information are exploited for this task. Our base model includes a pre-trained text encoder as the core component, and a syntax encoder and a feature encoder to capture syntactic and domain-specific information. Then we combine the output of different base models to form more powerful ensemble models. Finally, we design two conflict resolution strategies when the test data contain multiple (premise, hypothesis) pairs with the same premise. We train our models on the MedNLI dataset, yielding the best performance on the test set of the MEDIQA 2019 Task 1.
In medical domain, given a medical question, it is difficult to manually select the most relevant information from a large number of search results. BioNLP 2019 proposes Question Answering (QA) task, which encourages the use of text mining technology to automatically judge whether a search result is an answer to the medical question. The main challenge of QA task is how to mine the semantic relation between question and answer. We propose BioBERT Transformer model to tackle this challenge, which applies Transformers to extract semantic relation between different words in questions and answers. Furthermore, BioBERT is utilized to encode medical domain-specific contextualized word representations. Our method has reached the accuracy of 76.24{\%} and spearman of 17.12{\%} on the BioNLP 2019 QA task.
This paper presents a multi-task learning approach to natural language inference (NLI) and question entailment (RQE) in the biomedical domain. Recognizing textual inference relations and question similarity can address the issue of answering new consumer health questions by mapping them to Frequently Asked Questions on reputed websites like the NIH. We show that leveraging information from parallel tasks across domains along with medical knowledge integration allows our model to learn better biomedical feature representations. Our final models for the NLI and RQE tasks achieve the 4th and 2nd rank on the shared-task leaderboard respectively.
In this paper, we present Biomedical Multi-Task Deep Neural Network (Bio-MTDNN) on the NLI task of MediQA 2019 challenge. Bio-MTDNN utilizes {``}transfer learning{''} based paradigm where not only the source and target domains are different but also the source and target tasks are varied, although related. Further, Bio-MTDNN integrates knowledge from external sources such as clinical databases (UMLS) enhancing its performance on the clinical domain. Our proposed method outperformed the official baseline and other prior models (such as ESIM and Infersent on dev set) by a considerable margin as evident from our experimental results.
This article describes the participation of the UU{\_}TAILS team in the 2019 MEDIQA challenge intended to improve domain-specific models in medical and clinical NLP. The challenge consists of 3 tasks: medical language inference (NLI), recognizing textual entailment (RQE) and question answering (QA). Our team participated in tasks 1 and 2 and our best runs achieved a performance accuracy of 0.852 and 0.584 respectively for the test sets. The models proposed for task 1 relied on BERT embeddings and different ensemble techniques. For the RQE task, we trained a traditional multilayer perceptron network based on embeddings generated by the universal sentence encoder.
Natural Language inference is the task of identifying relation between two sentences as entailment, contradiction or neutrality. MedNLI is a biomedical flavour of NLI for clinical domain. This paper explores the use of Bidirectional Encoder Representation from Transformer (BERT) for solving MedNLI. The proposed model, BERT pre-trained on PMC, PubMed and fine-tuned on MIMICIII v1.4, achieves state of the art results on MedNLI (83.45{\%}) and an accuracy of 78.5{\%} in MEDIQA challenge. The authors present an analysis of the attention patterns that emerged as a result of training BERT on MedNLI using a visualization tool, bertviz.
Biomedical Question Answering (QA) aims at providing automated answers to user questions, regarding a variety of biomedical topics. For example, these questions may ask for related to diseases, drugs, symptoms, or medical procedures. Automated biomedical QA systems could improve the retrieval of information necessary to answer these questions. The MEDIQA challenge consisted of three tasks concerning various aspects of biomedical QA. This challenge aimed at advancing approaches to Natural Language Inference (NLI) and Recognizing Question Entailment (RQE), which would then result in enhanced approaches to biomedical QA. Our approach explored a common Transformer-based architecture that could be applied to each task. This approach shared the same pre-trained weights, but which were then fine-tuned for each task using the provided training data. Furthermore, we augmented the training data with external datasets and enriched the question and answer texts using MER, a named entity recognition tool. Our approach obtained high levels of accuracy, in particular on the NLI task, which classified pairs of text according to their relation. For the QA task, we obtained higher Spearman{'}s rank correlation values using the entities recognized by MER.
This study describes the model design of the NCUEE system for the MEDIQA challenge at the ACL-BioNLP 2019 workshop. We use the BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) as the word embedding method to integrate the BiLSTM (Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory) network with an attention mechanism for medical text inferences. A total of 42 teams participated in natural language inference task at MEDIQA 2019. Our best accuracy score of 0.84 ranked the top-third among all submissions in the leaderboard.
In this paper, we present three approaches for Natural Language Inference, Question Entailment Recognition and Question-Answering to improve domain-specific Information Retrieval. For addressing the NLI task, the UMLS Metathesaurus was used to find the synonyms of medical terms in given sentences, on which the InferSent model was trained to predict if the given sentence is an entailment, contradictory or neutral. We also introduce a new Extreme gradient boosting model built on PubMed embeddings to perform RQE. Further, a closed-domain Question Answering technique that uses Bi-directional LSTMs trained on the SquAD dataset to determine relevant ranks of answers for a given question is also discussed.
While sequence-to-sequence models have shown remarkable generalization power across several natural language tasks, their construct of solutions are argued to be less compositional than human-like generalization. In this paper, we present seq2attn, a new architecture that is specifically designed to exploit attention to find compositional patterns in the input. In seq2attn, the two standard components of an encoder-decoder model are connected via a transcoder, that modulates the information flow between them. We show that seq2attn can successfully generalize, without requiring any additional supervision, on two tasks which are specifically constructed to challenge the compositional skills of neural networks. The solutions found by the model are highly interpretable, allowing easy analysis of both the types of solutions that are found and potential causes for mistakes. We exploit this opportunity to introduce a new paradigm to test compositionality that studies the extent to which a model overgeneralizes when confronted with exceptions. We show that seq2attn exhibits such overgeneralization to a larger degree than a standard sequence-to-sequence model.
Neural methods for sentiment analysis have led to quantitative improvements over previous approaches, but these advances are not always accompanied with a thorough analysis of the qualitative differences. Therefore, it is not clear what outstanding conceptual challenges for sentiment analysis remain. In this work, we attempt to discover what challenges still prove a problem for sentiment classifiers for English and to provide a challenging dataset. We collect the subset of sentences that an (oracle) ensemble of state-of-the-art sentiment classifiers misclassify and then annotate them for 18 linguistic and paralinguistic phenomena, such as negation, sarcasm, modality, etc. Finally, we provide a case study that demonstrates the usefulness of the dataset to probe the performance of a given sentiment classifier with respect to linguistic phenomena.
We simulate first- and second-order context overlap and show that Skip-Gram with Negative Sampling is similar to Singular Value Decomposition in capturing second-order co-occurrence information, while Pointwise Mutual Information is agnostic to it. We support the results with an empirical study finding that the models react differently when provided with additional second-order information. Our findings reveal a basic property of Skip-Gram with Negative Sampling and point towards an explanation of its success on a variety of tasks.
Monotonicity reasoning is one of the important reasoning skills for any intelligent natural language inference (NLI) model in that it requires the ability to capture the interaction between lexical and syntactic structures. Since no test set has been developed for monotonicity reasoning with wide coverage, it is still unclear whether neural models can perform monotonicity reasoning in a proper way. To investigate this issue, we introduce the Monotonicity Entailment Dataset (MED). Performance by state-of-the-art NLI models on the new test set is substantially worse, under 55{\%}, especially on downward reasoning. In addition, analysis using a monotonicity-driven data augmentation method showed that these models might be limited in their generalization ability in upward and downward reasoning.
Self-explaining text categorization requires a classifier to make a prediction along with supporting evidence. A popular type of evidence is sub-sequences extracted from the input text which are sufficient for the classifier to make the prediction. In this work, we define multi-granular ngrams as basic units for explanation, and organize all ngrams into a hierarchical structure, so that shorter ngrams can be reused while computing longer ngrams. We leverage the tree-structured LSTM to learn a context-independent representation for each unit via parameter sharing. Experiments on medical disease classification show that our model is more accurate, efficient and compact than the BiLSTM and CNN baselines. More importantly, our model can extract intuitive multi-granular evidence to support its predictions.
The correct interpretation of quantifier statements in the context of a visual scene requires non-trivial inference mechanisms. For the example of {``}most{''}, we discuss two strategies which rely on fundamentally different cognitive concepts. Our aim is to identify what strategy deep learning models for visual question answering learn when trained on such questions. To this end, we carefully design data to replicate experiments from psycholinguistics where the same question was investigated for humans. Focusing on the FiLM visual question answering model, our experiments indicate that a form of approximate number system emerges whose performance declines with more difficult scenes as predicted by Weber{'}s law. Moreover, we identify confounding factors, like spatial arrangement of the scene, which impede the effectiveness of this system.
Work on {``}learning with rationales{''} shows that humans providing explanations to a machine learning system can improve the system{'}s predictive accuracy. However, this work has not been connected to work in {``}explainable AI{''} which concerns machines explaining their reasoning to humans. In this work, we show that learning with rationales can also improve the quality of the machine{'}s explanations as evaluated by human judges. Specifically, we present experiments showing that, for CNN-based text classification, explanations generated using {``}supervised attention{''} are judged superior to explanations generated using normal unsupervised attention.
The Transformer is a fully attention-based alternative to recurrent networks that has achieved state-of-the-art results across a range of NLP tasks. In this paper, we analyze the structure of attention in a Transformer language model, the GPT-2 small pretrained model. We visualize attention for individual instances and analyze the interaction between attention and syntax over a large corpus. We find that attention targets different parts of speech at different layer depths within the model, and that attention aligns with dependency relations most strongly in the middle layers. We also find that the deepest layers of the model capture the most distant relationships. Finally, we extract exemplar sentences that reveal highly specific patterns targeted by particular attention heads.
Language is a powerful tool which can be used to state the facts as well as express our views and perceptions. Most of the times, we find a subtle bias towards or against someone or something. When it comes to politics, media houses and journalists are known to create bias by shrewd means such as misinterpreting reality and distorting viewpoints towards some parties. This misinterpretation on a large scale can lead to the production of biased news and conspiracy theories. Automating bias detection in newspaper articles could be a good challenge for research in NLP. We proposed a headline attention network for this bias detection. Our model has two distinctive characteristics: (i) it has a structure that mirrors a person{'}s way of reading a news article (ii) it has attention mechanism applied on the article based on its headline, enabling it to attend to more critical content to predict bias. As the required datasets were not available, we created a dataset comprising of 1329 news articles collected from various Telugu newspapers and marked them for bias towards a particular political party. The experiments conducted on it demonstrated that our model outperforms various baseline methods by a substantial margin.
Neural network models have been very successful in natural language inference, with the best models reaching 90{\%} accuracy in some benchmarks. However, the success of these models turns out to be largely benchmark specific. We show that models trained on a natural language inference dataset drawn from one benchmark fail to perform well in others, even if the notion of inference assumed in these benchmarks is the same or similar. We train six high performing neural network models on different datasets and show that each one of these has problems of generalizing when we replace the original test set with a test set taken from another corpus designed for the same task. In light of these results, we argue that most of the current neural network models are not able to generalize well in the task of natural language inference. We find that using large pre-trained language models helps with transfer learning when the datasets are similar enough. Our results also highlight that the current NLI datasets do not cover the different nuances of inference extensively enough.
Character-level models have been used extensively in recent years in NLP tasks as both supplements and replacements for closed-vocabulary token-level word representations. In one popular architecture, character-level LSTMs are used to feed token representations into a sequence tagger predicting token-level annotations such as part-of-speech (POS) tags. In this work, we examine the behavior of POS taggers across languages from the perspective of individual hidden units within the character LSTM. We aggregate the behavior of these units into language-level metrics which quantify the challenges that taggers face on languages with different morphological properties, and identify links between synthesis and affixation preference and emergent behavior of the hidden tagger layer. In a comparative experiment, we show how modifying the balance between forward and backward hidden units affects model arrangement and performance in these types of languages.
AI systems{'} ability to explain their reasoning is critical to their utility and trustworthiness. Deep neural networks have enabled significant progress on many challenging problems such as visual question answering (VQA). However, most of them are opaque black boxes with limited explanatory capability. This paper presents a novel approach to developing a high-performing VQA system that can elucidate its answers with integrated textual and visual explanations that faithfully reflect important aspects of its underlying reasoning while capturing the style of comprehensible human explanations. Extensive experimental evaluation demonstrates the advantages of this approach compared to competing methods using both automated metrics and human evaluation.
Recently, several methods have been proposed to explain the predictions of recurrent neural networks (RNNs), in particular of LSTMs. The goal of these methods is to understand the network{'}s decisions by assigning to each input variable, e.g., a word, a relevance indicating to which extent it contributed to a particular prediction. In previous works, some of these methods were not yet compared to one another, or were evaluated only qualitatively. We close this gap by systematically and quantitatively comparing these methods in different settings, namely (1) a toy arithmetic task which we use as a sanity check, (2) a five-class sentiment prediction of movie reviews, and besides (3) we explore the usefulness of word relevances to build sentence-level representations. Lastly, using the method that performed best in our experiments, we show how specific linguistic phenomena such as the negation in sentiment analysis reflect in terms of relevance patterns, and how the relevance visualization can help to understand the misclassification of individual samples.
We present a detailed comparison of two types of sequence to sequence models trained to conduct a compositional task. The models are architecturally identical at inference time, but differ in the way that they are trained: our baseline model is trained with a task-success signal only, while the other model receives additional supervision on its attention mechanism (Attentive Guidance), which has shown to be an effective method for encouraging more compositional solutions. We first confirm that the models with attentive guidance indeed infer more compositional solutions than the baseline, by training them on the lookup table task presented by Liska et al. (2019). We then do an in-depth analysis of the structural differences between the two model types, focusing in particular on the organisation of the parameter space and the hidden layer activations and find noticeable differences in both these aspects. Guided networks focus more on the components of the input rather than the sequence as a whole and develop small functional groups of neurons with specific purposes that use their gates more selectively. Results from parameter heat maps, component swapping and graph analysis also indicate that guided networks exhibit a more modular structure with a small number of specialized, strongly connected neurons.
The generalized Dyck language has been used to analyze the ability of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) to learn context-free grammars (CFGs). Recent studies draw conflicting conclusions on their performance, especially regarding the generalizability of the models with respect to the depth of recursion. In this paper, we revisit several common models and experimental settings, discuss the potential problems of the tasks and analyses. Furthermore, we explore the use of attention mechanisms within the seq2seq framework to learn the Dyck language, which could compensate for the limited encoding ability of RNNs. Our findings reveal that attention mechanisms still cannot truly generalize over the recursion depth, although they perform much better than other models on the closing bracket tagging task. Moreover, this also suggests that this commonly used task is not sufficient to test a model{'}s understanding of CFGs.
A common approach in knowledge base completion (KBC) is to learn representations for entities and relations in order to infer missing facts by generalizing existing ones. A shortcoming of standard models is that they do not explain their predictions to make them verifiable easily to human inspection. In this paper, we propose the Context Path Model (CPM) which generates explanations for new facts in KBC by providing sets of \textit{context paths} as supporting evidence for these triples. For example, a new triple (Theresa May, nationality, Britain) may be explained by the path (Theresa May, born in, Eastbourne, contained in, Britain). The CPM is formulated as a wrapper that can be applied on top of various existing KBC models. We evaluate it for the well-established TransE model. We observe that its performance remains very close despite the added complexity, and that most of the paths proposed as explanations provide meaningful evidence to assess the correctness.
The recent wide-spread and strong interest in RNNs has spurred detailed investigations of the distributed representations they generate and specifically if they exhibit properties similar to those characterising human languages. Results are at present inconclusive. In this paper, we extend previous work on long-distance dependencies in three ways. We manipulate word embeddings to translate them in a space that is attuned to the linguistic properties under study. We extend the work to sentence embeddings and to new languages. We confirm previous negative results: word embeddings and sentence embeddings do not unequivocally encode fine-grained linguistic properties of long-distance dependencies.
Derivation is a type of a word-formation process which creates new words from existing ones by adding, changing or deleting affixes. In this paper, we explore the potential of word embeddings to identify properties of word derivations in the morphologically rich Czech language. We extract derivational relations between pairs of words from DeriNet, a Czech lexical network, which organizes almost one million Czech lemmas into derivational trees. For each such pair, we compute the difference of the embeddings of the two words, and perform unsupervised clustering of the resulting vectors. Our results show that these clusters largely match manually annotated semantic categories of the derivational relations (e.g. the relation {`}bake{--}baker{'} belongs to category {`}actor{'}, and a correct clustering puts it into the same cluster as {`}govern{--}governor{'}).
Work using artificial languages as training input has shown that LSTMs are capable of inducing the stack-like data structures required to represent context-free and certain mildly context-sensitive languages {---} formal language classes which correspond in theory to the hierarchical structures of natural language. Here we present a suite of experiments probing whether neural language models trained on linguistic data induce these stack-like data structures and deploy them while incrementally predicting words. We study two natural language phenomena: center embedding sentences and syntactic island constraints on the filler{--}gap dependency. In order to properly predict words in these structures, a model must be able to temporarily suppress certain expectations and then recover those expectations later, essentially pushing and popping these expectations on a stack. Our results provide evidence that models can successfully suppress and recover expectations in many cases, but do not fully recover their previous grammatical state.
In this paper, we define and apply representational stability analysis (ReStA), an intuitive way of analyzing neural language models. ReStA is a variant of the popular representational similarity analysis (RSA) in cognitive neuroscience. While RSA can be used to compare representations in models, model components, and human brains, ReStA compares instances of the same model, while systematically varying single model parameter. Using ReStA, we study four recent and successful neural language models, and evaluate how sensitive their internal representations are to the amount of prior context. Using RSA, we perform a systematic study of how similar the representational spaces in the first and second (or higher) layers of these models are to each other and to patterns of activation in the human brain. Our results reveal surprisingly strong differences between language models, and give insights into where the deep linguistic processing, that integrates information over multiple sentences, is happening in these models. The combination of ReStA and RSA on models and brains allows us to start addressing the important question of what kind of linguistic processes we can hope to observe in fMRI brain imaging data. In particular, our results suggest that the data on story reading from Wehbe et al./ (2014) contains a signal of shallow linguistic processing, but show no evidence on the more interesting deep linguistic processing.
We propose a novel approach to the study of how artificial neural network perceive the distinction between grammatical and ungrammatical sentences, a crucial task in the growing field of synthetic linguistics. The method is based on performance measures of language models trained on corpora and fine-tuned with either grammatical or ungrammatical sentences, then applied to (different types of) grammatical or ungrammatical sentences. The results show that both in the difficult and highly symmetrical task of detecting subject islands and in the more open CoLA dataset, grammatical sentences give rise to better scores than ungrammatical ones, possibly because they can be better integrated within the body of linguistic structural knowledge that the language model has accumulated.
The quality of Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has been shown to significantly degrade when confronted with source-side noise. We present the first large-scale study of state-of-the-art English-to-German NMT on real grammatical noise, by evaluating on several Grammar Correction corpora. We present methods for evaluating NMT robustness without true references, and we use them for extensive analysis of the effects that different grammatical errors have on the NMT output. We also introduce a technique for visualizing the divergence distribution caused by a source-side error, which allows for additional insights.
Neural network architectures have been augmented with differentiable stacks in order to introduce a bias toward learning hierarchy-sensitive regularities. It has, however, proven difficult to assess the degree to which such a bias is effective, as the operation of the differentiable stack is not always interpretable. In this paper, we attempt to detect the presence of latent representations of hierarchical structure through an exploration of the unsupervised learning of constituency structure. Using a technique due to Shen et al. (2018a,b), we extract syntactic trees from the pushing behavior of stack RNNs trained on language modeling and classification objectives. We find that our models produce parses that reflect natural language syntactic constituencies, demonstrating that stack RNNs do indeed infer linguistically relevant hierarchical structure.
In this paper, we propose a white-box attack algorithm called {``}Global Search{''} method and compare it with a simple misspelling noise and a more sophisticated and common white-box attack approach called {``}Greedy Search{''}. The attack methods are evaluated on the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) sentiment classifier trained on the IMDB movie review dataset. The attack success rate is used to evaluate the effectiveness of the attack methods and the perplexity of the sentences is used to measure the degree of distortion of the generated adversarial examples. The experiment results show that the proposed {``}Global Search{''} method generates more powerful adversarial examples with less distortion or less modification to the source text.
How and to what extent does BERT encode syntactically-sensitive hierarchical information or positionally-sensitive linear information? Recent work has shown that contextual representations like BERT perform well on tasks that require sensitivity to linguistic structure. We present here two studies which aim to provide a better understanding of the nature of BERT{'}s representations. The first of these focuses on the identification of structurally-defined elements using diagnostic classifiers, while the second explores BERT{'}s representation of subject-verb agreement and anaphor-antecedent dependencies through a quantitative assessment of self-attention vectors. In both cases, we find that BERT encodes positional information about word tokens well on its lower layers, but switches to a hierarchically-oriented encoding on higher layers. We conclude then that BERT{'}s representations do indeed model linguistically relevant aspects of hierarchical structure, though they do not appear to show the sharp sensitivity to hierarchical structure that is found in human processing of reflexive anaphora.
This paper presents a simple but general and effective method to debug the output of machine learning (ML) supervised models, including neural networks. The algorithm looks for features that lower the evaluation metric in such a way that it cannot be ascribed to chance (as measured by their p-values). Using this method {--} implemented as MLEval tool {--} you can find: (1) anomalies in test sets, (2) issues in preprocessing, (3) problems in the ML model itself. It can give you an insight into what can be improved in the datasets and/or the model. The same method can be used to compare ML models or different versions of the same model. We present the tool, the theory behind it and use cases for text-based models of various types.
We inspect the multi-head self-attention in Transformer NMT encoders for three source languages, looking for patterns that could have a syntactic interpretation. In many of the attention heads, we frequently find sequences of consecutive states attending to the same position, which resemble syntactic phrases. We propose a transparent deterministic method of quantifying the amount of syntactic information present in the self-attentions, based on automatically building and evaluating phrase-structure trees from the phrase-like sequences. We compare the resulting trees to existing constituency treebanks, both manually and by computing precision and recall.
Large pre-trained neural networks such as BERT have had great recent success in NLP, motivating a growing body of research investigating what aspects of language they are able to learn from unlabeled data. Most recent analysis has focused on model outputs (e.g., language model surprisal) or internal vector representations (e.g., probing classifiers). Complementary to these works, we propose methods for analyzing the attention mechanisms of pre-trained models and apply them to BERT. BERT{'}s attention heads exhibit patterns such as attending to delimiter tokens, specific positional offsets, or broadly attending over the whole sentence, with heads in the same layer often exhibiting similar behaviors. We further show that certain attention heads correspond well to linguistic notions of syntax and coreference. For example, we find heads that attend to the direct objects of verbs, determiners of nouns, objects of prepositions, and coreferent mentions with remarkably high accuracy. Lastly, we propose an attention-based probing classifier and use it to further demonstrate that substantial syntactic information is captured in BERT{'}s attention.
We introduce novel computational models for modeling semantic bleaching, a widespread category of change in which words become more abstract or lose elements of meaning, like the development of {``}arrive{''} from its earlier meaning {`}become at shore.{'} We validate our methods on a widespread case of bleaching in English: de-adjectival adverbs that originate as manner adverbs (as in {``}awfully behaved{''}) and later become intensifying adverbs (as in {``}awfully nice{''}). Our methods formally quantify three reflexes of bleaching: decreasing similarity to the source meaning (e.g., {``}awful{''}), increasing similarity to a fully bleached prototype (e.g., {``}very{''}), and increasing productivity (e.g., the breadth of adjectives that an adverb modifies). We also test a new causal model and find evidence that bleaching is initially triggered in contexts such as {``}conspicuously evident{''} and {``}insanely jealous{''}, where an adverb premodifies a semantically similar adjective. These contexts provide a form of {``}bridging context{''} (Evans and Wilkins, 2000) that allow a manner adverb to be reinterpreted as an intensifying adverb similar to {``}very{''}.
The esoteric definitions of poetry are insufficient in enveloping the changes in poetry that the age of mechanical reproduction has witnessed with the widespread proliferation of the use of digital media and artificial intelligence. They are also insufficient in distinguishing between prose and poetry, as the content of both prose and poetry can be poetic. Using quotes as prose considering their poetic, context-free and celebrated nature, stylistic differences between poetry and prose are delved into. Novel features in grammar and meter are justified as distinguishing features. Datasets of popular prose and poetry spanning across 1870-1920 and 1970-2019 have been created, and multiple experiments have been conducted to prove that prose and poetry in the latter period are more alike than they were in the former. The accuracy of classification of poetry and prose of 1970-2019 is significantly lesser than that of 1870-1920, thereby proving the convergence of poetry and prose in 1970-2019.
Word2Vec models are used to study the semantic chain shift FOOD{\textgreater}MEAT{\textgreater}FLESH in the history of English, c. 1425-1925. The development stretches out over a long time, starting before 1500, and may possibly be continuing to this day. The semantic changes likely proceeded as a push chain.
The paper focuses on diachronic evaluation of semantic changes of harm-related concepts in psychology. More specifically, we investigate a hypothesis that certain concepts such as {``}addiction{''}, {``}bullying{''}, {``}harassment{''}, {``}prejudice{''}, and {``}trauma{''} became broader during the last four decades. We evaluate semantic changes using two models: an LSA-based model from Sagi et al. (2009) and a diachronic adaptation of word2vec from Hamilton et al. (2016), that are trained on a large corpus of journal abstracts covering the period of 1980{--} 2019. Several concepts showed evidence of broadening. {``}Addiction{''} moved from physiological dependency on a substance to include psychological dependency on gaming and the Internet. Similarly, {``}harassment{''} and {``}trauma{''} shifted towards more psychological meanings. On the other hand, {``}bullying{''} has transformed into a more victim-related concept and expanded to new areas such as workplaces.
Diachronic word embeddings play a key role in capturing interesting patterns about how language evolves over time. Most of the existing work focuses on studying corpora spanning across several decades, which is understandably still not a possibility when working on social media-based user-generated content. In this work, we address the problem of studying semantic changes in a large Twitter corpus collected over five years, a much shorter period than what is usually the norm in diachronic studies. We devise a novel attentional model, based on Bernoulli word embeddings, that are conditioned on contextual extra-linguistic (social) features such as network, spatial and socio-economic variables, which are associated with Twitter users, as well as topic-based features. We posit that these social features provide an inductive bias that helps our model to overcome the narrow time-span regime problem. Our extensive experiments reveal that our proposed model is able to capture subtle semantic shifts without being biased towards frequency cues and also works well when certain contextual features are absent. Our model fits the data better than current state-of-the-art dynamic word embedding models and therefore is a promising tool to study diachronic semantic changes over small time periods.
I survey some recent approaches to studying change in the lexicon, particularly change in meaning across phylogenies. I briefly sketch an evolutionary approach to language change and point out some issues in recent approaches to studying semantic change that rely on temporally stratified word embeddings. I draw illustrations from lexical cognate models in Pama-Nyungan to identify meaning classes most appropriate for lexical phylogenetic inference, particularly highlighting the importance of variation in studying change over time.
Word meaning changes over time, depending on linguistic and extra-linguistic factors. Associating a word{'}s correct meaning in its historical context is a central challenge in diachronic research, and is relevant to a range of NLP tasks, including information retrieval and semantic search in historical texts. Bayesian models for semantic change have emerged as a powerful tool to address this challenge, providing explicit and interpretable representations of semantic change phenomena. However, while corpora typically come with rich metadata, existing models are limited by their inability to exploit contextual information (such as text genre) beyond the document time-stamp. This is particularly critical in the case of ancient languages, where lack of data and long diachronic span make it harder to draw a clear distinction between polysemy (the fact that a word has several senses) and semantic change (the process of acquiring, losing, or changing senses), and current systems perform poorly on these languages. We develop GASC, a dynamic semantic change model that leverages categorical metadata about the texts{'} genre to boost inference and uncover the evolution of meanings in Ancient Greek corpora. In a new evaluation framework, our model achieves improved predictive performance compared to the state of the art.
The concept of {`}markedness{'} has been influential in phonology for almost a century. Theoretical phonology has found it useful to describe some segments as more {`}marked{'} than others, referring to a cluster of language-internal and -external properties (Jakobson 1968, Haspelmath 2006). We argue, using a simple mathematical model based on Evolutionary Phonology (Blevins 2004), that markedness is an epiphenomenon of phonetically grounded sound change.
This paper introduces a novel method to track collocational variations in diachronic corpora that can identify several changes undergone by these phraseological combinations and to propose alternative solutions found in later periods. The strategy consists of extracting syntactically-related candidates of collocations and ranking them using statistical association measures. Then, starting from the first period of the corpus, the system tracks each combination over time, verifying different types of historical variation such as the loss of one or both lemmas, the disappearance of the collocation, or its diachronic frequency trend. Using a distributional semantics strategy, it also proposes other linguistic structures which convey similar meanings to those extinct collocations. A case study on historical corpora of Portuguese and Spanish shows that the system speeds up and facilitates the finding of some diachronic changes and phraseological shifts that are harder to identify without using automated methods.
We aim to provide computational evidence for the era of authorship of two important old Thai texts: Traiphumikatha and Pumratchatham. The era of authorship of these two books is still an ongoing debate among Thai literature scholars. Analysis of old Thai texts present a challenge for standard natural language processing techniques, due to the lack of corpora necessary for building old Thai word and syllable segmentation. We propose an accurate and interpretable model to classify each segment as one of the three eras of authorship (Sukhothai, Ayuddhya, or Rattanakosin) without sophisticated linguistic preprocessing. Contrary to previous hypotheses, our model suggests that both books were written during the Sukhothai era. Moreover, the second half of the Pumratchtham is uncharacteristic of the Sukhothai era, which may have confounded literary scholars in the past. Further, our model reveals that the most indicative linguistic changes stem from unidirectional grammaticalized words and polyfunctional words, which show up as most dominant features in the model.
In this work we propose a data-driven methodology for identifying temporal trends in a corpus of medieval charters. We have used perplexities derived from RNNs as a distance measure between documents and then, performed clustering on those distances. We argue that perplexities calculated by such language models are representative of temporal trends. The clusters produced using the K-Means algorithm give an insight of the differences in language in different time periods at least partly due to language change. We suggest that the temporal distribution of the individual clusters might provide a more nuanced picture of temporal trends compared to discrete bins, thus providing better results when used in a classification task.
Contemporary debates on filter bubbles and polarization in public and social media raise the question to what extent news media of the past exhibited biases. This paper specifically examines bias related to gender in six Dutch national newspapers between 1950 and 1990. We measure bias related to gender by comparing local changes in word embedding models trained on newspapers with divergent ideological backgrounds. We demonstrate clear differences in gender bias and changes within and between newspapers over time. In relation to themes such as sexuality and leisure, we see the bias moving toward women, whereas, generally, the bias shifts in the direction of men, despite growing female employment number and feminist movements. Even though Dutch society became less stratified ideologically (depillarization), we found an increasing divergence in gender bias between religious and social-democratic on the one hand and liberal newspapers on the other. Methodologically, this paper illustrates how word embeddings can be used to examine historical language change. Future work will investigate how fine-tuning deep contextualized embedding models, such as ELMO, might be used for similar tasks with greater contextual information.
Traditional historical linguistics lacks the possibility to empirically assess its assumptions regarding the phonetic systems of past languages and language stages since most current methods rely on comparative tools to gain insights into phonetic features of sounds in proto- or ancestor languages. The paper at hand presents a computational method based on deep neural networks to predict phonetic features of historical sounds where the exact quality is unknown and to test the overall coherence of reconstructed historical phonetic features. The method utilizes the principles of coarticulation, local predictability and statistical phonological constraints to predict phonetic features by the features of their immediate phonetic environment. The validity of this method will be assessed using New High German phonetic data and its specific application to diachronic linguistics will be demonstrated in a case study of the phonetic system Proto-Indo-European.
The study of language change through parallel corpora can be advantageous for the analysis of complex interactions between time, text domain and language. Often, those advantages cannot be fully exploited due to the sparse but high-dimensional nature of such historical data. To tackle this challenge, we introduce ParHistVis: a novel, free, easy-to-use, interactive visualization tool for parallel, multilingual, diachronic and synchronic linguistic data. We illustrate the suitability of the components of the tool based on a use case of word order change in Romance wh-interrogatives.
We investigate some aspects of the history of antisemitism in France, one of the cradles of modern antisemitism, using diachronic word embeddings. We constructed a large corpus of French books and periodicals issues that contain a keyword related to Jews and performed a diachronic word embedding over the 1789-1914 period. We studied the changes over time in the semantic spaces of 4 target words and performed embedding projections over 6 streams of antisemitic discourse. This allowed us to track the evolution of antisemitic bias in the religious, economic, socio-politic, racial, ethic and conspiratorial domains. Projections show a trend of growing antisemitism, especially in the years starting in the mid-80s and culminating in the Dreyfus affair. Our analysis also allows us to highlight the peculiar adverse bias towards Judaism in the broader context of other religions.
Language change is often assessed against a set of pre-determined time periods in order to be able to trace its diachronic trajectory. This is problematic, since a pre-determined periodization might obscure significant developments and lead to false assumptions about the data. Moreover, these time periods can be based on factors which are either arbitrary or non-linguistic, e.g., dividing the corpus data into equidistant stages or taking into account language-external events. Addressing this problem, in this paper we present a data-driven approach to periodization: {`}DiaHClust{'}. DiaHClust is based on iterative hierarchical clustering and offers a multi-layered perspective on change from text-level to broader time periods. We demonstrate the usefulness of DiaHClust via a case study investigating syntactic change in Icelandic, modelling the syntactic system of the language in terms of vectors of syntactic change.
We use a variant of word embedding model that incorporates subword information to characterize the degree of compositionality in lexical semantics. Our models reveal some interesting yet contrastive patterns of long-term change in multiple languages: Indo-European languages put more weight on subword units in newer words, while conversely Chinese puts less weights on the subwords, but more weight on the word as a whole. Our method provides novel evidence and methodology that enriches existing theories in evolutionary linguistics. The resulting word vectors also has decent performance in NLP-related tasks.
We propose Word Embedding Networks, a novel method that is able to learn word embeddings of individual data slices while simultaneously aligning and ordering them without feeding temporal information a priori to the model. This gives us the opportunity to analyse the dynamics in word embeddings on a large scale in a purely data-driven manner. In experiments on two different newspaper corpora, the New York Times (English) and die Zeit (German), we were able to show that time actually determines the dynamics of semantic change. However, there is by no means a uniform evolution, but instead times of faster and times of slower change.
This study investigates the mutual effects over time of semantically related function words on each other{'}s distribution over syntactic environments. Words that can have the same meaning are observed to have opposite trends of change in frequency across different syntactic structures which correspond to the shared meaning. This phenomenon is demonstrated to have a rational basis: it increases communicative efficiency by prioritizing words differently in the environments on which they compete.
Semantic divergence in related languages is a key concern of historical linguistics. Intra-lingual semantic shift has been previously studied in computational linguistics, but this can only provide a limited picture of the evolution of word meanings, which often develop in a multilingual environment. In this paper we investigate semantic change across languages by measuring the semantic distance of cognate words in multiple languages. By comparing current meanings of cognates in different languages, we hope to uncover information about their previous meanings, and about how they diverged in their respective languages from their common original etymon. We further study the properties of their semantic divergence, by analyzing how the features of words such as frequency and polysemy are related to the divergence in their meaning, and thus make the first steps towards formulating laws of cross-lingual semantic change.
We train a diachronic long short-term memory (LSTM) part-of-speech tagger on a large corpus of American English from the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries. We analyze the tagger{'}s ability to implicitly learn temporal structure between years, and the extent to which this knowledge can be transferred to date new sentences. The learned year embeddings show a strong linear correlation between their first principal component and time. We show that temporal information encoded in the model can be used to predict novel sentences{'} years of composition relatively well. Comparisons to a feedforward baseline suggest that the temporal change learned by the LSTM is syntactic rather than purely lexical. Thus, our results suggest that our tagger is implicitly learning to model syntactic change in American English over the course of the 19th, 20th, and early 21st centuries.
The paper showcases the application of word embeddings to change in language use in the domain of science, focusing on the Late Modern English period (17-19th century). Historically, this is the period in which many registers of English developed, including the language of science. Our overarching interest is the linguistic development of scientific writing to a distinctive (group of) register(s). A register is marked not only by the choice of lexical words (discourse domain) but crucially by grammatical choices which indicate style. The focus of the paper is on the latter, tracing words with primarily grammatical functions (function words and some selected, poly-functional word forms) diachronically. To this end, we combine diachronic word embeddings with appropriate visualization and exploratory techniques such as clustering and relative entropy for meaningful aggregation of data and diachronic comparison.
The distribution of most dialectal variants have not only spatial but also temporal patterns. Based on the {`}apparent time hypothesis{'}, much of dialect change is happening through younger speakers accepting innovations. Thus, synchronic diversity can be interpreted diachronically. With the assumption of the {`}contact effect{'}, i.e. contact possibility (contact and isolation) between speaker communities being responsible for language change, and the apparent time hypothesis, we aim to predict the usage of dialectal variants. In this paper we model the contact possibility based on two of the most important factors in sociolinguistics to be affecting language change: age and distance. The first steps of the approach involve modeling contact possibility using a logistic predictor, taking the age of respondents into account. We test the \textit{global}, and the \textit{local} role of age for variation where the local level means spatial subsets around each survey site, chosen based on \textit{k} nearest neighbors. The prediction approach is tested on Swiss German syntactic survey data, featuring multiple respondents from different age cohorts at survey sites. The results show the relative success of the logistic prediction approach and the limitations of the method, therefore further proposals are made to develop the methodology.
We extend the well-known word analogy task to a one-to-X formulation, including one-to-none cases, when no correct answer exists. The task is cast as a relation discovery problem and applied to historical armed conflicts datasets, attempting to predict new relations of type {`}location:armed-group{'} based on data about past events. As the source of semantic information, we use diachronic word embedding models trained on English news texts. A simple technique to improve diachronic performance in such task is demonstrated, using a threshold based on a function of cosine distance to decrease the number of false positives; this approach is shown to be beneficial on two different corpora. Finally, we publish a ready-to-use test set for one-to-X analogy evaluation on historical armed conflicts data.
We measure the intensity of diachronic semantic shifts in adjectives in English, Norwegian and Russian across 5 decades. This is done in order to test the hypothesis that evaluative adjectives are more prone to temporal semantic change. To this end, 6 different methods of quantifying semantic change are used. Frequency-controlled experimental results show that, depending on the particular method, evaluative adjectives either do not differ from other types of adjectives in terms of semantic change or appear to actually be less prone to shifting (particularly, to {`}jitter{'}-type shifting). Thus, in spite of many well-known examples of semantically changing evaluative adjectives (like {`}terrific{'} or {`}incredible{'}), it seems that such cases are not specific to this particular type of words.
We investigate changes in the meanings of words used in the UK Parliament across two different epochs. We use word embeddings to explore changes in the distribution of words of interest and uncover words that appear to have undergone semantic transformation in the intervening period, and explore different ways of obtaining target words for this purpose. We find that semantic changes are generally in line with those found in other corpora, and little evidence that parliamentary language is more static than general English. It also seems that words with senses that have been recorded in the dictionary as having fallen into disuse do not undergo semantic changes in this domain.
Due to its semantic succinctness and novelty of expression, poetry is a great test-bed for semantic change analysis. However, so far there is a scarcity of large diachronic corpora. Here, we provide a large corpus of German poetry which consists of about 75k poems with more than 11 million tokens, with poems ranging from the 16th to early 20th century. We then track semantic change in this corpus by investigating the rise of tropes ({`}love is magic{'}) over time and detecting change points of meaning, which we find to occur particularly within the German Romantic period. Additionally, through self-similarity, we reconstruct literary periods and find evidence that the law of linear semantic change also applies to poetry.
Studying conceptual change using embedding models has become increasingly popular in the Digital Humanities community while critical observations about them have received less attention. This paper investigates what the impact of known pitfalls can be on the conclusions drawn in a digital humanities study through the use case of {``}Racism{''}. In addition, we suggest an approach for modeling a complex concept in terms of words and relations representative of the conceptual system. Our results show that different models created from the same data yield different results, but also indicate that using different model architectures, comparing different corpora and comparing to control words and relations can help to identify which results are solid and which may be due to artefact. We propose guidelines to conduct similar studies, but also note that more work is needed to fully understand how we can distinguish artefacts from actual conceptual changes.
We present work in progress on the temporal progression of compositionality in noun-noun compounds. Previous work has proposed computational methods for determining the compositionality of compounds. These methods try to automatically determine how transparent the meaning of the compound as a whole is with respect to the meaning of its parts. We hypothesize that such a property might change over time. We use the time-stamped Google Books corpus for our diachronic investigations, and first examine whether the vector-based semantic spaces extracted from this corpus are able to predict compositionality ratings, despite their inherent limitations. We find that using temporal information helps predicting the ratings, although correlation with the ratings is lower than reported for other corpora. Finally, we show changes in compositionality over time for a selection of compounds.
We address in this paper the issue of text reuse in liturgical manuscripts of the middle ages. More specifically, we study variant readings of the Obsecro Te prayer, part of the devotional Books of Hours often used by Christians as guidance for their daily prayers. We aim at automatically extracting and categorising pairs of words and expressions that exhibit variant relations. For this purpose, we adopt a linguistic classification that allows to better characterize the variants than edit operations. Then, we study the evolution of Obsecro Te texts from a temporal and geographical axis. Finally, we contrast several unsupervised state-of-the-art approaches for the automatic extraction of Obsecro Te variants. Based on the manual observation of 772 Obsecro Te copies which show more than 21,000 variants, we show that the proposed methodology is helpful for an automatic study of variants and may serve as basis to analyze and to depict useful information from devotional texts.
In this study, we propose to focus on understanding the evolution of a specific scientific concept{---}that of Circular Economy (CE){---}by analysing how the language used in academic discussions has changed semantically. It is worth noting that the meaning and central theme of this concept has remained the same; however, we hypothesise that it has undergone semantic change by way of additional layers being added to the concept. We have shown that semantic change in language is a reflection of shifts in scientific ideas, which in turn help explain the evolution of a concept. Focusing on the CE concept, our analysis demonstrated that the change over time in the language used in academic discussions of CE is indicative of the way in which the concept evolved and expanded.
This paper proposes a Gaussian Process model of sound change targeted toward questions in Indo-Aryan dialectology. Gaussian Processes (GPs) provide a flexible means of expressing covariance between outcomes, and can be extended to a wide variety of probability distributions. We find that GP models fare better in terms of some key posterior predictive checks than models that do not express covariance between sound changes, and outline directions for future work.
Certain phenomena of interest to linguists mainly occur in low-resource languages, such as contact-induced language change. We show that it is possible to study contact-induced language change computationally in a historical variety of a low-resource language, Early-Modern Frisian, by creating a model using features that were established to be relevant in a closely related language, modern Dutch. This allows us to test two hypotheses on two types of language contact that may have taken place between Frisian and Dutch during this time. Our model shows that Frisian verb cluster word orders are associated with different context features than Dutch verb orders, supporting the {`}learned borrowing{'} hypothesis.
Historical change typically is the result of complex interactions between several linguistic factors. Identifying the relevant factors and understanding how they interact across the temporal dimension is the core remit of historical linguistics. With respect to corpus work, this entails a separate annotation, extraction and painstaking pair-wise comparison of the relevant bits of information. This paper presents a significant extension of HistoBankVis, a multilayer visualization system which allows a fast and interactive exploration of complex linguistic data. Linguistic factors can be understood as data dimensions which show complex interrelationships. We model these relationships with the Parallel Sets technique. We demonstrate the powerful potential of this technique by applying the system to understanding the interaction of case, grammatical relations and word order in the history of Icelandic.
We study the problem of incremental domain adaptation of a generic neural machine translation model with limited resources (e.g., budget and time) for human translations or model training. In this paper, we propose a novel query strategy for selecting {``}unlabeled{''} samples from a new domain based on sentence embeddings for Arabic. We accelerate the fine-tuning process of the generic model to the target domain. Specifically, our approach estimates the informativeness of instances from the target domain by comparing the distance of their sentence embeddings to embeddings from the generic domain. We perform machine translation experiments (Ar-to-En direction) for comparing a random sampling baseline with our new approach, similar to active learning, using two small update sets for simulating the work of human translators. For the prescribed setting we can save more than 50{\%} of the annotation costs without loss in quality, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach.
Parallel corpora available for building machine translation (MT) models for dialectal Arabic (DA) are rather limited. The scarcity of resources has prompted the use of Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) abundant resources to complement the limited dialectal resource. However, dialectal clitics often differ between MSA and DA. This paper compares morphology-aware DA word segmentation to other word segmentation approaches like Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) and Sub-word Regularization (SR). A set of experiments conducted on Egyptian Arabic (EA), Levantine Arabic (LA), and Gulf Arabic (GA) show that a sufficiently accurate morphology-aware segmentation used in conjunction with BPE outperforms the other word segmentation approaches.
When speakers code-switch between their native language and a second language or language variant, they follow a syntactic pattern where words and phrases from the embedded language are inserted into the matrix language. This paper explores the possibility of utilizing this pattern in improving code-switching identification between Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and Egyptian Arabic (EA). We try to answer the question of how strong is the POS signal in word-level code-switching identification. We build a deep learning model enriched with linguistic features (including POS tags) that outperforms the state-of-the-art results by 1.9{\%} on the development set and 1.0{\%} on the test set. We also show that in intra-sentential code-switching, the selection of lexical items is constrained by POS categories, where function words tend to come more often from the dialectal language while the majority of content words come from the standard language.
Arabic sentiment analysis models have employed compositional embedding features to represent the Arabic dialectal content. These embeddings are usually composed via ordered, syntax-aware composition functions and learned within deep neural frameworks. With the free word order and the varying syntax nature across the different Arabic dialects, a sentiment analysis system developed for one dialect might not be efficient for the others. Here we present syntax-ignorant n-gram embeddings to be used in sentiment analysis of several Arabic dialects. The proposed embeddings were composed and learned using an unordered composition function and a shallow neural model. Five datasets of different dialects were used to evaluate the produced embeddings in the sentiment analysis task. The obtained results revealed that, our syntax-ignorant embeddings could outperform word2vec model and doc2vec both variant models in addition to hand-crafted system baselines, while a competent performance was noticed towards baseline systems that adopted more complicated neural architectures.
Word Embeddings (WE) are getting increasingly popular and widely applied in many Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications due to their effectiveness in capturing semantic properties of words; Machine Translation (MT), Information Retrieval (IR) and Information Extraction (IE) are among such areas. In this paper, we propose an open source ArbEngVec which provides several Arabic-English cross-lingual word embedding models. To train our bilingual models, we use a large dataset with more than 93 million pairs of Arabic-English parallel sentences. In addition, we perform both extrinsic and intrinsic evaluations for the different word embedding model variants. The extrinsic evaluation assesses the performance of models on the cross-language Semantic Textual Similarity (STS), while the intrinsic evaluation is based on the Word Translation (WT) task.
Lexical ambiguity, a challenging phenomenon in all natural languages, is particularly prevalent for languages with diacritics that tend to be omitted in writing, such as Arabic. Omitting diacritics leads to an increase in the number of homographs: different words with the same spelling. Diacritic restoration could theoretically help disambiguate these words, but in practice, the increase in overall sparsity leads to performance degradation in NLP applications. In this paper, we propose approaches for automatically marking a subset of words for diacritic restoration, which leads to selective homograph disambiguation. Compared to full or no diacritic restoration, these approaches yield selectively-diacritized datasets that balance sparsity and lexical disambiguation. We evaluate the various selection strategies extrinsically on several downstream applications: neural machine translation, part-of-speech tagging, and semantic textual similarity. Our experiments on Arabic show promising results, where our devised strategies on selective diacritization lead to a more balanced and consistent performance in downstream applications.
This paper presents the winning solution to the Arabic Named Entity Recognition challenge run by Topcoder.com. The proposed model integrates various tailored techniques together, including representation learning, feature engineering, sequence labeling, and ensemble learning. The final model achieves a test F{\_}1 score of 75.82{\%} on the AQMAR dataset and outperforms baselines by a large margin. Detailed analyses are conducted to reveal both its strengths and limitations. Specifically, we observe that (1) representation learning modules can significantly boost the performance but requires a proper pre-processing and (2) the resulting embedding can be further enhanced with feature engineering due to the limited size of the training data. All implementations and pre-trained models are made public.
Arabic is a complex language with limited resources which makes it challenging to produce accurate text classification tasks such as sentiment analysis. The utilization of transfer learning (TL) has recently shown promising results for advancing accuracy of text classification in English. TL models are pre-trained on large corpora, and then fine-tuned on task-specific datasets. In particular, universal language models (ULMs), such as recently developed BERT, have achieved state-of-the-art results in various NLP tasks in English. In this paper, we hypothesize that similar success can be achieved for Arabic. The work aims at supporting the hypothesis by developing the first Universal Language Model in Arabic (hULMonA - حلمنا meaning our dream), demonstrating its use for Arabic classifications tasks, and demonstrating how a pre-trained multi-lingual BERT can also be used for Arabic. We then conduct a benchmark study to evaluate both ULM successes with Arabic sentiment analysis. Experiment results show that the developed hULMonA and multi-lingual ULM are able to generalize well to multiple Arabic data sets and achieve new state of the art results in Arabic Sentiment Analysis for some of the tested sets.
We explore the extent to which neural networks can learn to identify semantically equivalent sentences from a small variable dataset using an end-to-end training. We collect a new noisy non-standardised user-generated Algerian (ALG) dataset and also translate it to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) which serves as its regularised counterpart. We compare the performance of various models on both datasets and report the best performing configurations. The results show that relatively simple models composed of 2 LSTM layers outperform by far other more sophisticated attention-based architectures, for both ALG and MSA datasets.
In this paper, we tackle the problem of {``}root extraction{''} from words in the Semitic language family. A challenge in applying natural language processing techniques to these languages is the data sparsity problem that arises from their rich internal morphology, where the substructure is inherently non-concatenative and morphemes are interdigitated in word formation. While previous automated methods have relied on human-curated rules or multiclass classification, they have not fully leveraged the various combinations of regular, sequential concatenative morphology within the words and the internal interleaving within templatic stems of roots and patterns. To address this, we propose a constrained sequence-to-sequence root extraction method. Experimental results show our constrained model outperforms a variety of methods at root extraction. Furthermore, by enriching word embeddings with resulting decompositions, we show improved results on word analogy, word similarity, and language modeling tasks.
This paper introduces the first attempt to investigate morphological segmentation on En-Ar bilingual word embeddings using bilingual word embeddings model without word alignment (BilBOWA). We investigate the effect of sentence length and embedding size on the learning process. Our experiment shows that using the D3 segmentation scheme improves the accuracy of learning bilingual word embeddings up to 10 percentage points compared to the ATB and D0 schemes in all different training settings.
This paper tackles the problem of open domain factual Arabic question answering (QA) using Wikipedia as our knowledge source. This constrains the answer of any question to be a span of text in Wikipedia. Open domain QA for Arabic entails three challenges: annotated QA datasets in Arabic, large scale efficient information retrieval and machine reading comprehension. To deal with the lack of Arabic QA datasets we present the Arabic Reading Comprehension Dataset (ARCD) composed of 1,395 questions posed by crowdworkers on Wikipedia articles, and a machine translation of the Stanford Question Answering Dataset (Arabic-SQuAD). Our system for open domain question answering in Arabic (SOQAL) is based on two components: (1) a document retriever using a hierarchical TF-IDF approach and (2) a neural reading comprehension model using the pre-trained bi-directional transformer BERT. Our experiments on ARCD indicate the effectiveness of our approach with our BERT-based reader achieving a 61.3 F1 score, and our open domain system SOQAL achieving a 27.6 F1 score.
Segmentation serves as an integral part in many NLP applications including Machine Translation, Parsing, and Information Retrieval. When a model trained on the standard language is applied to dialects, the accuracy drops dramatically. However, there are more lexical items shared by the standard language and dialects than can be found by mere surface word matching. This shared lexicon is obscured by a lot of cliticization, gemination, and character repetition. In this paper, we prove that segmentation and base normalization of dialects can help in domain adaptation by reducing data sparseness. Segmentation will improve a system performance by reducing the number of OOVs, help isolate the differences and allow better utilization of the commonalities. We show that adding a small amount of dialectal segmentation training data reduced OOVs by 5{\%} and remarkably improves POS tagging for dialects by 7.37{\%} f-score, even though no dialect-specific POS training data is included.
Assessing the credibility of online content has garnered a lot of attention lately. We focus on one such type of online content, namely weblogs or blogs for short. Some recent work attempted the task of automatically assessing the credibility of blogs, typically via machine learning. However, in the case of Arabic blogs, there are hardly any datasets available that can be used to train robust machine learning models for this difficult task. To overcome the lack of sufficient training data, we propose deep co-learning, a semi-supervised end-to-end deep learning approach to assess the credibility of Arabic blogs. In deep co-learning, multiple weak deep neural network classifiers are trained using a small labeled dataset, and each using a different view of the data. Each one of these classifiers is then used to classify unlabeled data, and its prediction is used to train the other classifiers in a semi-supervised fashion. We evaluate our deep co-learning approach on an Arabic blogs dataset, and we report significant improvements in performance compared to many baselines including fully-supervised deep learning models as well as ensemble models.
We present a collection of morphologically annotated corpora for seven Arabic dialects: Taizi Yemeni, Sanaani Yemeni, Najdi, Jordanian, Syrian, Iraqi and Moroccan Arabic. The corpora collectively cover over 200,000 words, and are all manually annotated in a common set of standards for orthography, diacritized lemmas, tokenization, morphological units and English glosses. These corpora will be publicly available to serve as benchmarks for training and evaluating systems for Arabic dialect morphological analysis and disambiguation.
To compile a modern dictionary that catalogues the words in currency, and to study linguistic patterns in the contemporary language, it is necessary to have a corpus of authentic texts that reflect current usage of the language. Although there are numerous Arabic corpora, none claims to be representative of the language in terms of the combination of geographical region, genre, subject matter, mode, and medium. This paper describes a 100-million-word corpus that takes the British National Corpus (BNC) as a model. The aim of the corpus is to be balanced, annotated, comprehensive, and representative of contemporary Arabic as written and spoken in Arab countries today. It will be different from most others in not being heavily-dominated by the news or in mixing the classical with the modern. In this paper is an outline of the methodology adopted for the design, construction, and annotation of this corpus. DIWAN (Alshargi and Rambow, 2015) was used to annotate a one-million-word snapshot of the corpus. DIWAN is a dialectal word annotation tool, but we upgraded it by adding a new tag-set that is based on traditional Arabic grammar and by adding the roots and morphological patterns of nouns and verbs. Moreover, the corpus we constructed covers the major spoken varieties of Arabic.
This paper introduces the work on building a machine translation system for Arabic-to-Turkish in the news domain. Our work includes collecting parallel datasets in several ways for a new and low-resourced language pair, building baseline systems with state-of-the-art architectures and developing language specific algorithms for better translation. Parallel datasets are mainly collected three different ways; i) translating Arabic texts into Turkish by professional translators, ii) exploiting the web for open-source Arabic-Turkish parallel texts, iii) using back-translation. We per-formed preliminary experiments for Arabic-to-Turkish machine translation with neural(Marian) machine translation tools with a novel morphologically motivated vocabulary reduction method.
While transfer learning for text has been very active in the English language, progress in Arabic has been slow, including the use of Domain Adaptation (DA). Domain Adaptation is used to generalize the performance of any classifier by trying to balance the classifier{'}s accuracy for a particular task among different text domains. In this paper, we propose and evaluate two variants of a domain adaptation technique: the first is a base model called Domain Adversarial Neural Network (DANN), while the second is a variation that incorporates representational learning. Similar to previous approaches, we propose the use of proxy A-distance as a metric to assess the success of generalization. We make use of ArSentDLEV, a multi-topic dataset collected from the Levantine countries, to test the performance of the models. We show the superiority of the proposed method in accuracy and robustness when dealing with the Arabic language.
The World Wide Web has become a fundamental resource for building large text corpora. Broadcasting platforms such as news websites are rich sources of data regarding diverse topics and form a valuable foundation for research. The Arabic language is extensively utilized on the Web. Still, Arabic is relatively an under-resourced language in terms of availability of freely annotated corpora. This paper presents the first version of the Open Source International Arabic News (OSIAN) corpus. The corpus data was collected from international Arabic news websites, all being freely available on the Web. The corpus consists of about 3.5 million articles comprising more than 37 million sentences and roughly 1 billion tokens. It is encoded in XML; each article is annotated with metadata information. Moreover, each word is annotated with lemma and part-of-speech. the described corpus is processed, archived and published into the CLARIN infrastructure. This publication includes descriptive metadata via OAI-PMH, direct access to the plain text material (available under Creative Commons Attribution-Non-Commercial 4.0 International License - CC BY-NC 4.0), and integration into the WebLicht annotation platform and CLARIN{'}s Federated Content Search FCS.
Speech acts are the actions that a speaker intends when performing an utterance within conversations. In this paper, we proposed speech act classification for asynchronous conversations on Twitter using multiple machine learning methods including SVM and deep neural networks. We applied the proposed methods on the ArSAS tweets dataset. The obtained results show that superiority of deep learning methods compared to SVMs, where Bi-LSTM managed to achieve an accuracy of 87.5{\%} and a macro-averaged F1 score 61.5{\%}. We believe that our results are the first to be reported on the task of speech-act recognition for asynchronous conversations on Arabic Twitter.
Studies on Dialectical Arabic are growing more important by the day as it becomes the primary written and spoken form of Arabic online in informal settings. Among the important problems that should be explored is that of dialect identification. This paper reports different techniques that can be applied towards such goal and reports their performance on the Multi Arabic Dialect Applications and Resources (MADAR) Arabic Dialect Corpora. Our results show that improving on traditional systems using frequency based features and non deep learning classifiers is a challenging task. We propose different models based on different word and document representations. Our top model is able to achieve an F1 macro averaged score of 65.66 on MADAR{'}s small-scale parallel corpus of 25 dialects and Modern Standard Arabic (MSA).
We present MICHAEL, a simple lightweight method for automatic Arabic Dialect Identification on the MADAR travel domain Dialect Identification (DID). MICHAEL uses simple character-level features in order to perform a pre-processing free classification. More precisely, Character N-grams extracted from the original sentences are used to train a Multinomial Naive Bayes classifier. This system achieved an official score (accuracy) of 53.25{\%} with 1{\textless}=N{\textless}=3 but showed a much better result with character 4-grams (62.17{\%} accuracy).
Arabic dialect identification is an inherently complex problem, as Arabic dialect taxonomy is convoluted and aims to dissect a continuous space rather than a discrete one. In this work, we present machine and deep learning approaches to predict 21 fine-grained dialects form a set of given tweets per user. We adopted numerous feature extraction methods most of which showed improvement in the final model, such as word embedding, Tf-idf, and other tweet features. Our results show that a simple LinearSVC can outperform any complex deep learning model given a set of curated features. With a relatively complex user voting mechanism, we were able to achieve a Macro-Averaged F1-score of 71.84{\%} on MADAR shared subtask-2. Our best submitted model ranked second out of all participating teams.
In this paper, we present two approaches for Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification. The first approach is based on Recurrent Neural Networks (BLSTM, BGRU) using hierarchical classification. The main idea is to separate the classification process for a sentence from a given text in two stages. We start with a higher level of classification (8 classes) and then the finer-grained classification (26 classes). The second approach is given by a voting system based on Naive Bayes and Random Forest. Our system achieves an F1 score of 63.02 {\%} on the subtask evaluation dataset.
This paper describes the solution that we propose on MADAR 2019 Arabic Fine-Grained Dialect Identification task. The proposed solution utilized a set of classifiers that we trained on character and word features. These classifiers are: Support Vector Machines (SVM), Bernoulli Naive Bayes (BNB), Multinomial Naive Bayes (MNB), Logistic Regression (LR), Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD), Passive Aggressive(PA) and Perceptron (PC). The system achieved competitive results, with a performance of 62.87 {\%} and 62.12 {\%} for both development and test sets.
The segmentation of argumentative units is an important subtask of argument mining, which is frequently addressed at a coarse granularity, usually assuming argumentative units to be no smaller than sentences. Approaches focusing at the clause-level granularity, typically address the task as sequence labeling at the token level, aiming to classify whether a token begins, is inside, or is outside of an argumentative unit. Most approaches exploit highly engineered, manually constructed features, and algorithms typically used in sequential tagging {--} such as Conditional Random Fields, while more recent approaches try to exploit manually constructed features in the context of deep neural networks. In this context, we examined to what extend recent advances in sequential labelling allow to reduce the need for highly sophisticated, manually constructed features, and whether limiting features to embeddings, pre-trained on large corpora is a promising approach. Evaluation results suggest the examined models and approaches can exhibit comparable performance, minimising the need for feature engineering.
We present a model to tackle a fundamental but understudied problem in computational argumentation: proposition extraction. Propositions are the basic units of an argument and the primary building blocks of most argument mining systems. However, they are usually substituted by argumentative discourse units obtained via surface-level text segmentation, which may yield text segments that lack semantic information necessary for subsequent argument mining processes. In contrast, our cascade model aims to extract complete propositions by handling anaphora resolution, text segmentation, reported speech, questions, imperatives, missing subjects, and revision. We formulate each task as a computational problem and test various models using a corpus of the 2016 U.S. presidential debates. We show promising performance for some tasks and discuss main challenges in proposition extraction.
When assessing relations between argumentative units (e.g., support or attack), computational systems often exploit disclosing indicators or markers that are not part of elementary argumentative units (EAUs) themselves, but are gained from their context (position in paragraph, preceding tokens, etc.). We show that this dependency is much stronger than previously assumed. In fact, we show that by completely masking the EAU text spans and only feeding information from their context, a competitive system may function even better. We argue that an argument analysis system that relies more on discourse context than the argument{'}s content is unsafe, since it can easily be tricked. To alleviate this issue, we separate argumentative units from their context such that the system is forced to model and rely on an EAU{'}s content. We show that the resulting classification system is more robust, and argue that such models are better suited for predicting argumentative relations across documents.
In this paper, we investigate similarities between discourse and argumentation structures by aligning subtrees in a corpus containing both annotations. Contrary to previous works, we focus on comparing sub-structures and not only relations matches. Using data mining techniques, we show that discourse and argumentation most often align well, and the double annotation allows to derive a mapping between structures. Moreover, this approach enables the study of similarities between discourse structures and differences in their expressive power.
In this work we propose to leverage resources available with discourse-level annotations to facilitate the identification of argumentative components and relations in scientific texts, which has been recognized as a particularly challenging task. In particular, we implement and evaluate a transfer learning approach in which contextualized representations learned from discourse parsing tasks are used as input of argument mining models. As a pilot application, we explore the feasibility of using automatically identified argumentative components and relations to predict the acceptance of papers in computer science venues. In order to conduct our experiments, we propose an annotation scheme for argumentative units and relations and use it to enrich an existing corpus with an argumentation layer.
As part of a larger project on argument mining of Swedish parliamentary data, we have created a semantic graph that, together with named entity recognition and resolution (NER), should make it easier to establish connections between arguments in a given debate. The graph is essentially a semantic database that keeps track of Members of Parliament (MPs), in particular their presence in the parliament and activity in debates, but also party affiliation and participation in commissions. The hope is that the Swedish PoliGraph will enable us to perform named entity resolution on debates in the Swedish parliament with a high accuracy, with the aim of determining to whom an argument is directed.
Engaging in a live debate requires, among other things, the ability to effectively rebut arguments claimed by your opponent. In particular, this requires identifying these arguments. Here, we suggest doing so by automatically mining claims from a corpus of news articles containing billions of sentences, and searching for them in a given speech. This raises the question of whether such claims indeed correspond to those made in spoken speeches. To this end, we collected a large dataset of 400 speeches in English discussing 200 controversial topics, mined claims for each topic, and asked annotators to identify the mined claims mentioned in each speech. Results show that in the vast majority of speeches debaters indeed make use of such claims. In addition, we present several baselines for the automatic detection of mined claims in speeches, forming the basis for future work. All collected data is freely available for research.
Identification of argumentative components is an important stage of argument mining. Lexicon information is reported as one of the most frequently used features in the argument mining research. In this paper, we propose a methodology to integrate lexicon information into a neural network model by attention mechanism. We conduct experiments on the UKP dataset, which is collected from heterogeneous sources and contains several text types, e.g., microblog, Wikipedia, and news. We explore lexicons from various application scenarios such as sentiment analysis and emotion detection. We also compare the experimental results of leveraging different lexicons.
Attention mechanisms have seen some success for natural language processing downstream tasks in recent years and generated new state-of-the-art results. A thorough evaluation of the attention mechanism for the task of Argumentation Mining is missing. With this paper, we report a comparative evaluation of attention layers in combination with a bidirectional long short-term memory network, which is the current state-of-the-art approach for the unit segmentation task. We also compare sentence-level contextualized word embeddings to pre-generated ones. Our findings suggest that for this task, the additional attention layer does not improve the performance. In most cases, contextualized embeddings do also not show an improvement on the score achieved by pre-defined embeddings.
In recent years, argumentation mining, which automatically extracts the structure of argumentation from unstructured documents such as essays and debates, is gaining attention. For argumentation mining applications, argument-component classification is an important subtask. The existing methods can be classified into supervised methods and unsupervised methods. Supervised document classification performs classification using a single sentence without relying on the whole document. On the other hand, unsupervised document classification has the advantage of being able to use the whole document, but accuracy of these methods is not so high. In this paper, we propose a method for argument-component classification that combines relation identification by neural networks and TextRank to integrate relation informations (i.e. the strength of the relation). This method can use argumentation-specific knowledge by employing a supervised learning on a corpus while maintaining the advantage of using the whole document. Experiments on two corpora, one consisting of student essay and the other of Wikipedia articles, show the effectiveness of this method.
The purpose of this study is to deploy a novel methodology for classifying different argumentative support (supporting evidences) in arguments, without considering the context. The proposed methodology is based on the idea that the use of Tree Kernel algorithms can be a good way to discriminate between different types of argumentative stances without the need of highly engineered features. This can be useful in different Argumentation Mining sub-tasks. This work provides an example of classifier built using a Tree Kernel method, which can discriminate between different kinds of argumentative support with a high accuracy. The ability to distinguish different kinds of support is, in fact, a key step toward Argument Scheme classification.
Research on argumentation mining from text has frequently discussed relationships to discourse parsing, but few empirical results are available so far. One corpus that has been annotated in parallel for argumentation structure and for discourse structure (RST, SDRT) are the {`}argumentative microtexts{'} (Peldszus and Stede, 2016a). While results on perusing the gold RST annotations for predicting argumentation have been published (Peldszus and Stede, 2016b), the step to automatic discourse parsing has not yet been taken. In this paper, we run various discourse parsers (RST, PDTB) on the corpus, compare their results to the gold annotations (for RST) and then assess the contribution of automatically-derived discourse features for argumentation parsing. After reproducing the state-of-the-art Evidence Graph model from Afantenos et al. (2018) for the microtexts, we find that PDTB features can indeed improve its performance.
We report the results of preliminary investigations into the relationship between linguistic alignment and dialogical argumentation at the level of discourse acts. We annotated a proof of concept dataset with illocutions and transitions at the comment level based on Inference Anchoring Theory. We estimated linguistic alignment across discourse acts and found significant variation. Alignment features calculated at the dyad level are found to be useful for detecting a range of argumentative discourse acts.
This paper focuses on the real world application of scientific writing and on determining rhetorical moves, an important step in establishing the argument structure of biomedical articles. Using the observation that the structure of scholarly writing in laboratory-based experimental sciences closely follows laboratory procedures, we examine most closely the Methods section of the texts and adopt an approach of identifying rhetorical moves that are procedure-oriented. We also propose a verb-centric frame semantics with an effective set of semantic roles in order to support the analysis. These components are designed to support a computational model that extends a promising proposal of appropriate rhetorical moves for this domain, but one which is merely descriptive. Our work also contributes to the understanding of argument-related annotation schemes. In particular, we conduct a detailed study with human annotators to confirm that our selection of semantic roles is effective in determining the underlying rhetorical structure of existing biomedical articles in an extensive dataset. The annotated dataset that we produce provides the important knowledge needed for our ultimate goal of analyzing biochemistry articles.
Rhetorical elements from scientific publications provide a more structured view of the document and allow algorithms to focus on particular parts of the text. We surveyed the literature for previously proposed schemes for rhetorical elements and present an overview of its current state of the art. We also searched for available tools using these schemes and applied four tools for our particular task of ranking biomedical abstracts based on text similarity. Comparison of the tools with two strong baselines shows that the predictions provided by the ArguminSci tool can support our use case of mining alternative methods for animal experiments.
We tackle the tasks of automatically identifying comparative sentences and categorizing the intended preference (e.g., {``}Python has better NLP libraries than MATLAB{''} → Python, better, MATLAB). To this end, we manually annotate 7,199 sentences for 217 distinct target item pairs from several domains (27{\%} of the sentences contain an oriented comparison in the sense of {``}better{''} or {``}worse{''}). A gradient boosting model based on pre-trained sentence embeddings reaches an F1 score of 85{\%} in our experimental evaluation. The model can be used to extract comparative sentences for pro/con argumentation in comparative / argument search engines or debating technologies.
In data ranking applications, pairwise annotation is often more consistent than cardinal annotation for learning ranking models. We examine this in a case study on ranking text passages for argument convincingness. Our task is to choose text passages that provide the highest-quality, most-convincing arguments for opposing sides of a topic. Using data from a deployed system within the Bing search engine, we construct a pairwise-labeled dataset for argument convincingness that is substantially more comprehensive in topical coverage compared to existing public resources. We detail the process of extracting topical passages for queries submitted to a search engine, creating annotated sets of passages aligned to different stances on a topic, and assessing argument convincingness of passages using pairwise annotation. Using a state-of-the-art convincingness model, we evaluate several methods for using pairwise-annotated data examples to train models for ranking passages. Our results show pairwise training outperforms training that regresses to a target score for each passage. Our results also show a simple {`}win-rate{'} score is a better regression target than the previously proposed page-rank target. Lastly, addressing the need to filter noisy crowd-sourced annotations when constructing a dataset, we show that filtering for transitivity within pairwise annotations is more effective than filtering based on annotation confidence measures for individual examples.
Stance detection plays a pivot role in fake news detection. The task involves determining the point of view or stance {--} for or against {--} a text takes towards a claim. One very important stage in employing stance detection for fake news detection is the aggregation of multiple stance labels from different text sources in order to compute a prediction for the veracity of a claim. Typically, aggregation is treated as a credibility-weighted average of stance predictions. In this work, we take the novel approach of applying, for aggregation, a gradual argumentation semantics to bipolar argumentation frameworks mined using stance detection. Our empirical evaluation shows that our method results in more accurate veracity predictions.
This paper examines the factors that govern persuasion for a priori UNDECIDED versus DECIDED audience members in the context of on-line debates. We separately study two types of influences: linguistic factors {---} features of the language of the debate itself; and audience factors {---} features of an audience member encoding demographic information, prior beliefs, and debate platform behavior. In a study of users of a popular debate platform, we find first that different combinations of linguistic features are critical for predicting persuasion outcomes for UNDECIDED versus DECIDED members of the audience. We additionally find that audience factors have more influence on predicting the side (PRO/CON) that persuaded UNDECIDED users than for DECIDED users that flip their stance to the opposing side. Our results emphasize the importance of considering the undecided and decided audiences separately when studying linguistic factors of persuasion.
This paper presents a first attempt at using Walton{'}s argumentation schemes for annotating arguments in Swedish political text and assessing the feasibility of using this particular set of schemes with two linguistically trained annotators. The texts are not pre-annotated with argumentation structure beforehand. The results show that the annotators differ both in number of annotated arguments and selection of the conclusion and premises which make up the arguments. They also differ in their labeling of the schemes, but grouping the schemes increases their agreement. The outcome from this will be used to develop guidelines for future annotations.
The issues of algorithmic fairness and bias have recently featured prominently in many publications highlighting the fact that training the algorithms for maximum performance may often result in predictions that are biased against various groups. Educational applications based on NLP and speech processing technologies often combine multiple complex machine learning algorithms and are thus vulnerable to the same sources of bias as other machine learning systems. Yet such systems can have high impact on people{'}s lives especially when deployed as part of high-stakes tests. In this paper we discuss different definitions of fairness and possible ways to apply them to educational applications. We then use simulated and real data to consider how test-takers{'} native language backgrounds can affect their automated scores on an English language proficiency assessment. We illustrate that total fairness may not be achievable and that different definitions of fairness may require different solutions.
Predicting the construct-relevant difficulty of Multiple-Choice Questions (MCQs) has the potential to reduce cost while maintaining the quality of high-stakes exams. In this paper, we propose a method for estimating the difficulty of MCQs from a high-stakes medical exam, where all questions were deliberately written to a common reading level. To accomplish this, we extract a large number of linguistic features and embedding types, as well as features quantifying the difficulty of the items for an automatic question-answering system. The results show that the proposed approach outperforms various baselines with a statistically significant difference. Best results were achieved when using the full feature set, where embeddings had the highest predictive power, followed by linguistic features. An ablation study of the various types of linguistic features suggested that information from all levels of linguistic processing contributes to predicting item difficulty, with features related to semantic ambiguity and the psycholinguistic properties of words having a slightly higher importance. Owing to its generic nature, the presented approach has the potential to generalize over other exams containing MCQs.
Vocabulary is one of the most important parts of language competence. Testing of vocabulary knowledge is central to research on reading and language. However, it usually costs a large amount of time and human labor to build an item bank and to test large number of students. In this paper, we propose a novel testing strategy by combining automatic item generation (AIG) and computerized adaptive testing (CAT) in vocabulary assessment for Chinese L2 learners. Firstly, we generate three types of vocabulary questions by modeling both the vocabulary knowledge and learners{'} writing error data. After evaluation and calibration, we construct a balanced item pool with automatically generated items, and implement a three-parameter computerized adaptive test. We conduct manual item evaluation and online student tests in the experiments. The results show that the combination of AIG and CAT can construct test items efficiently and reduce test cost significantly. Also, the test result of CAT can provide valuable feedback to AIG algorithms.
Computational linguistic research on the language complexity of student writing typically involves human ratings as a gold standard. However, educational science shows that teachers find it difficult to identify and cleanly separate accuracy, different aspects of complexity, contents, and structure. In this paper, we therefore explore the use of computational linguistic methods to investigate how task-appropriate complexity and accuracy relate to the grading of overall performance, content performance, and language performance as assigned by teachers. Based on texts written by students for the official school-leaving state examination (Abitur), we show that teachers successfully assign higher language performance grades to essays with higher task-appropriate language complexity and properly separate this from content scores. Yet, accuracy impacts teacher assessment for all grading rubrics, also the content score, overemphasizing the role of accuracy. Our analysis is based on broad computational linguistic modeling of German language complexity and an innovative theory- and data-driven feature aggregation method inferring task-appropriate language complexity.
We present a model for automatic scoring of coherence based on comparing the rhetorical structure (RS) of college student summaries in L2 (English) against expert summaries. Coherence is conceptualised as a construct consisting of the rhetorical relation and its arguments. Comparison with expert-assigned scores shows that RS scores correlate with both cohesion and coherence. Furthermore, RS scores improve the accuracy of a regression model for cohesion score prediction.
Spelling correction has attracted a lot of attention in the NLP community. However, models have been usually evaluated on artificiallycreated or proprietary corpora. A publiclyavailable corpus of authentic misspellings, annotated in context, is still lacking. To address this, we present and release an annotated data set of 6,121 spelling errors in context, based on a corpus of essays written by English language learners. We also develop a minimallysupervised context-aware approach to spelling correction. It achieves strong results on our data: 88.12{\%} accuracy. This approach can also train with a minimal amount of annotated data (performance reduced by less than 1{\%}). Furthermore, this approach allows easy portability to new domains. We evaluate our model on data from a medical domain and demonstrate that it rivals the performance of a model trained and tuned on in-domain data.
The quantity and quality of training data plays a crucial role in grammatical error correction (GEC). However, due to the fact that obtaining human-annotated GEC data is both time-consuming and expensive, several studies have focused on generating artificial error sentences to boost training data for grammatical error correction, and shown significantly better performance. The present study explores how fluency filtering can affect the quality of artificial errors. By comparing artificial data filtered by different levels of fluency, we find that artificial error sentences with low fluency can greatly facilitate error correction, while high fluency errors introduce more noise.
In this paper we present first results for the task of Automated Essay Scoring for Norwegian learner language. We analyze a number of properties of this task experimentally and assess (i) the formulation of the task as either regression or classification, (ii) the use of various non-neural and neural machine learning architectures with various types of input representations, and (iii) applying multi-task learning for joint prediction of essay scoring and native language identification. We find that a GRU-based attention model trained in a single-task setting performs best at the AES task.
Grammatical error detection (GED) in non-native writing requires systems to identify a wide range of errors in text written by language learners. Error detection as a purely supervised task can be challenging, as GED datasets are limited in size and the label distributions are highly imbalanced. Contextualized word representations offer a possible solution, as they can efficiently capture compositional information in language and can be optimized on large amounts of unsupervised data. In this paper, we perform a systematic comparison of ELMo, BERT and Flair embeddings (Peters et al., 2017; Devlin et al., 2018; Akbik et al., 2018) on a range of public GED datasets, and propose an approach to effectively integrate such representations in current methods, achieving a new state of the art on GED. We further analyze the strengths and weaknesses of different contextual embeddings for the task at hand, and present detailed analyses of their impact on different types of errors.
Character-based representations in neural models have been claimed to be a tool to overcome spelling variation in in word token-based input. We examine this claim in neural models for content scoring. We formulate precise hypotheses about the possible effects of adding character representations to word-based models and test these hypotheses on large-scale real world content scoring datasets. We find that, while character representations may provide small performance gains in general, their effectiveness in accounting for spelling variation may be limited. We show that spelling correction can provide larger gains than character representations, and that spelling correction improves the performance of models with character representations. With these insights, we report a new state of the art on the ASAP-SAS content scoring dataset.
Recent work on Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) has highlighted the importance of language modeling in that it is certainly possible to achieve good performance by comparing the probabilities of the proposed edits. At the same time, advancements in language modeling have managed to generate linguistic output, which is almost indistinguishable from that of human-generated text. In this paper, we up the ante by exploring the potential of more sophisticated language models in GEC and offer some key insights on their strengths and weaknesses. We show that, in line with recent results in other NLP tasks, Transformer architectures achieve consistently high performance and provide a competitive baseline for future machine learning models.
Our submitted models are NMT systems based on the Transformer model, which we improve by incorporating several enhancements: applying dropout to whole source and target words, weighting target subwords, averaging model checkpoints, and using the trained model iteratively for correcting the intermediate translations. The system in the Restricted Track is trained on the provided corpora with oversampled {``}cleaner{''} sentences and reaches 59.39 F0.5 score on the test set. The system in the Low-Resource Track is trained from Wikipedia revision histories and reaches 44.13 F0.5 score. Finally, we finetune the system from the Low-Resource Track on restricted data and achieve 64.55 F0.5 score.
In this paper, we describe our approach to GEC using the BERT model for creation of encoded representation and some of our enhancements, namely, {``}Heads{''} are fully-connected networks which are used for finding the errors and later receive recommendation from the networks on dealing with a highlighted part of the sentence only. Among the main advantages of our solution is increasing the system productivity and lowering the time of processing while keeping the high accuracy of GEC results.
A number of methods have been proposed to automatically extract collocations, i.e., conventionalized lexical combinations, from text corpora. However, the attempts to evaluate and compare them with a specific application in mind lag behind. This paper compares three end-to-end resources for collocation learning, all of which used the same corpus but different methods. Adopting a gold-standard evaluation method, the results show that the method of dependency parsing outperforms regex-over-pos in collocation identification. The lexical association measures (AMs) used for collocation ranking perform about the same overall but differently for individual collocation types. Further analysis has also revealed that there are considerable differences between other commonly used AMs.
In this paper, we present experiments that estimate the impact of specific lexical choices of people writing in a second language (L2). In particular, we look at misspelled words that indicate lexical uncertainty on the part of the author, and separate them into three categories: misspelled cognates, {``}L2-ed{''} (in our case, anglicized) words, and all other spelling errors. We test the assumption that such errors contain clues about the native language of an essay{'}s author through the task of native language identification. The results of the experiments show that the information brought by each of these categories is complementary. We also note that while the distribution of such features changes with the proficiency level of the writer, their contribution towards native language identification remains significant at all levels.
We present a new concept prerequisite learning method for Learning Object (LO) ordering that exploits only linguistic features extracted from textual educational resources. The method was tested in a cross- and in- domain scenario both for Italian and English. Additionally, we performed experiments based on a incremental training strategy to study the impact of the training set size on the classifier performances. The paper also introduces ITA-PREREQ, to the best of our knowledge the first Italian dataset annotated with prerequisite relations between pairs of educational concepts, and describe the automatic strategy devised to build it.
Existing example retrieval systems do not include grammatically incorrect examples or present only a few examples, if any. Even if a retrieval system has a wide coverage of incorrect examples along with the correct counterpart, learners need to know whether their query includes errors or not. Considering the usability of retrieving incorrect examples, our proposed method uses a large-scale corpus and presents correct expressions along with incorrect expressions using a grammatical error detection system so that the learner do not need to be aware of how to search for the examples. Intrinsic and extrinsic evaluations indicate that our method improves accuracy of example sentence retrieval and quality of learner{'}s writing.
In this study, we developed an automated algorithm to provide feedback about the specific content of non-native English speakers{'} spoken responses. The responses were spontaneous speech, elicited using integrated tasks where the language learners listened to and/or read passages and integrated the core content in their spoken responses. Our models detected the absence of key points considered to be important in a spoken response to a particular test question, based on two different models: (a) a model using word-embedding based content features and (b) a state-of-the art short response scoring engine using traditional n-gram based features. Both models achieved a substantially improved performance over the majority baseline, and the combination of the two models achieved a significant further improvement. In particular, the models were robust to automated speech recognition (ASR) errors, and performance based on the ASR word hypotheses was comparable to that based on manual transcriptions. The accuracy and F-score of the best model for the questions included in the train set were 0.80 and 0.68, respectively. Finally, we discussed possible approaches to generating targeted feedback about the content of a language learner{'}s response, based on automatically detected missing key points.
This paper provides an analytical assessment of student short answer responses with a view to potential benefits in pedagogical contexts. We first propose and formalize two novel analytical assessment tasks: analytic score prediction and justification identification, and then provide the first dataset created for analytic short answer scoring research. Subsequently, we present a neural baseline model and report our extensive empirical results to demonstrate how our dataset can be used to explore new and intriguing technical challenges in short answer scoring. The dataset is publicly available for research purposes.
Visual content has been proven to be effective for micro-learning compared to other media. In this paper, we discuss leveraging this observation in our efforts to build audio-visual content for young learners{'} vocabulary learning. We attempt to tackle two major issues in the process of traditional visual curation tasks. Generic learning videos do not necessarily satisfy the unique context of a learner and/or an educator, and hence may not result in maximal learning outcomes. Also, manual video curation by educators is a highly labor-intensive process. To this end, we present a customizable micro-learning audio-visual content curation tool that is designed to reduce the human (educator) effort in creating just-in-time learning videos from a textual description (learning script). This provides educators with control of the content while preparing the learning scripts, and in turn can also be customized to capture the desired learning objectives and outcomes. As a use case, we automatically generate learning videos with British National Corpus{'} (BNC) frequently spoken vocabulary words and evaluate them with experts. They positively recommended the generated learning videos with an average rating of 4.25 on a Likert scale of 5 points. The inter-annotator agreement between the experts for the video quality was substantial (Fleiss Kappa=0.62) with an overall agreement of 81{\%}.
During learning, students often have questions which they would benefit from responses to in real time. In class, a student can ask a question to a teacher. During homework, or even in class if the student is shy, it can be more difficult to receive a rapid response. In this work, we introduce Curio SmartChat, an automated question answering system for middle school Science topics. Our system has now been used by around 20,000 students who have so far asked over 100,000 questions. We present data on the challenge created by students{'} grammatical errors and spelling mistakes, and discuss our system{'}s approach and degree of effectiveness at disambiguating questions that the system is initially unsure about. We also discuss the prevalence of student {``}small talk{''} not related to science topics, the pluses and minuses of this behavior, and how a system should respond to these conversational acts. We conclude with discussions and point to directions for potential future work.
This paper discusses the computer-assisted content evaluation of summaries. We propose a method to make a correspondence between the segments of the source text and its summary. As a unit of the segment, we adopt {``}Idea Unit (IU){''} which is proposed in Applied Linguistics. Introducing IUs enables us to make a correspondence even for the sentences that contain multiple ideas. The IU correspondence is made based on the similarity between vector representations of IU. An evaluation experiment with two source texts and 20 summaries showed that the proposed method is more robust against rephrased expressions than the conventional ROUGE-based baselines. Also, the proposed method outperformed the baselines in recall. We im-plemented the proposed method in a GUI tool{``}Segment Matcher{''} that aids teachers to estab-lish a link between corresponding IUs acrossthe summary and source text.
Automatic readability assessment aims to ensure that readers read texts that they can comprehend. However, computational models are typically trained on texts created from the perspective of the text writer, not the target reader. There is little experimental research on the relationship between expert annotations of readability, reader{'}s language proficiency, and different levels of reading comprehension. To address this gap, we conducted a user study in which over a 100 participants read texts of different reading levels and answered questions created to test three forms of comprehension. Our results indicate that more than readability annotation or reader proficiency, it is the type of comprehension question asked that shows differences between reader responses - inferential questions were difficult for users of all levels of proficiency across reading levels. The data collected from this study will be released with this paper, which will, for the first time, provide a collection of 45 reader bench marked texts to evaluate readability assessment systems developed for adult learners of English. It can also potentially be useful for the development of question generation approaches in intelligent tutoring systems research.
The selection of texts for second language learning purposes typically relies on teachers{'} and test developers{'} individual judgment of the observable qualitative properties of a text. Little or no consideration is generally given to the quantitative dimension within an evidence-based framework of reproducibility. This study aims to fill the gap by evaluating the effectiveness of an automatic tool trained to assess text complexity in the context of Italian as a second language learning. A dataset of texts labeled by expert test developers was used to evaluate the performance of three classifier models (decision tree, random forest, and support vector machine), which were trained using linguistic features measured quantitatively and extracted from the texts. The experimental analysis provided satisfactory results, also in relation to which kind of linguistic trait contributed the most to the final outcome.
We present a machine foreign-language teacher that takes documents written in a student{'}s native language and detects situations where it can replace words with their foreign glosses such that new foreign vocabulary can be learned simply through reading the resulting mixed-language text. We show that it is possible to design such a machine teacher without any supervised data from (human) students. We accomplish this by modifying a cloze language model to incrementally learn new vocabulary items, and use this language model as a proxy for the word guessing and learning ability of real students. Our machine foreign-language teacher decides which subset of words to replace by consulting this language model. We evaluate three variants of our student proxy language models through a study on Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk). We find that MTurk {``}students{''} were able to guess the meanings of foreign words introduced by the machine teacher with high accuracy for both function words as well as content words in two out of the three models. In addition, we show that students are able to retain their knowledge about the foreign words after they finish reading the document.
We track the development of writing complexity and accuracy in German students{'} early academic language development from first to eighth grade. Combining an empirically broad approach to linguistic complexity with the high-quality error annotation included in the Karlsruhe Children{'}s Text corpus (Lavalley et al. 2015) used, we construct models of German academic language development that successfully identify the student{'}s grade level. We show that classifiers for the early years rely more on accuracy development, whereas development in secondary school is better characterized by increasingly complex language in all domains: linguistic system, language use, and human sentence processing characteristics. We demonstrate the generalizability and robustness of models using such a broad complexity feature set across writing topics.
We developed an automated oral proficiency scoring system for non-native English speakers{'} spontaneous speech. Automated systems that score holistic proficiency are expected to assess a wide range of performance categories, and the content is one of the core performance categories. In order to assess the quality of the content, we trained a Siamese convolutional neural network (CNN) to model the semantic relationship between key points generated by experts and a test response. The correlation between human scores and Siamese CNN scores was comparable to human-human agreement (r=0.63), and it was higher than the baseline content features. The inclusion of Siamese CNN-based feature to the existing state-of-the-art automated scoring model achieved a small but statistically significant improvement. However, the new model suffered from score inflation for long atypical responses with serious content issues. We investigated the reasons of this score inflation by analyzing the associations with linguistic features and identifying areas strongly associated with the score errors.
A typical medical curriculum is organized in a hierarchy of instructional objectives called Learning Outcomes (LOs); a few thousand LOs span five years of study. Gaining a thorough understanding of the curriculum requires learners to recognize and apply related LOs across years, and across different parts of the curriculum. However, given the large scope of the curriculum, manually labeling related LOs is tedious, and almost impossible to scale. In this paper, we build a system that learns relationships between LOs, and we achieve up to human-level performance in the LO relationship extraction task. We then present an application where the proposed system is employed to build a map of related LOs and Learning Resources (LRs) pertaining to a virtual patient case. We believe that our system can help medical students grasp the curriculum better, within classroom as well as in Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) settings.
This article studies the relationship between text readability indice and automatic machine understanding systems. Our hypothesis is that the simpler a text is, the better it should be understood by a machine. We thus expect to a strong correlation between readability levels on the one hand, and performance of automatic reading systems on the other hand. We test this hypothesis with several understanding systems based on language models of varying strengths, measuring this correlation on two corpora of journalistic texts. Our results suggest that this correlation is rather small that existing comprehension systems are far to reproduce the gradual improvement of their performance on texts of decreasing complexity.
We present an analysis of metaphors in news text simplification. Using features that capture general and metaphor specific characteristics, we test whether we can automatically identify which metaphors will be changed or preserved, and whether there are features that have different predictive power for metaphors or literal words. The experiments show that the Age of Acquisition is the most distinctive feature for both metaphors and literal words. Features that capture Imageability and Concreteness are useful when used alone, but within the full set of features they lose their impact. Frequency of use seems to be the best feature to differentiate metaphors that should be changed and those to be preserved.
This study aims to build an automatic system for the detection of plagiarized spoken responses in the context of an assessment of English speaking proficiency for non-native speakers. Classification models were trained to distinguish between plagiarized and non-plagiarized responses with two different types of features: text-to-text content similarity measures, which are commonly used in the task of plagiarism detection for written documents, and speaking proficiency measures, which were specifically designed for spontaneous speech and extracted using an automated speech scoring system. The experiments were first conducted on a large data set drawn from an operational English proficiency assessment across multiple years, and the best classifier on this heavily imbalanced data set resulted in an F1-score of 0.761 on the plagiarized class. This system was then validated on operational responses collected from a single administration of the assessment and achieved a recall of 0.897. The results indicate that the proposed system can potentially be used to improve the validity of both human and automated assessment of non-native spoken English.
There is a long record of research on equity in schools. As machine learning researchers begin to study fairness and bias in earnest, language technologies in education have an unusually strong theoretical and applied foundation to build on. Here, we introduce concepts from culturally relevant pedagogy and other frameworks for teaching and learning, identifying future work on equity in NLP. We present case studies in a range of topics like intelligent tutoring systems, computer-assisted language learning, automated essay scoring, and sentiment analysis in classrooms, and provide an actionable agenda for research.
Knowing how to use words appropriately has been a key to improving language proficiency. Previous studies typically discuss how students learn receptively to select the correct candidate from a set of confusing words in the fill-in-the-blank task where specific context is given. In this paper, we go one step further, assisting students to learn to use confusing words appropriately in a productive task: sentence translation. We leverage the GiveMe-Example system, which suggests example sentences for each confusing word, to achieve this goal. In this study, students learn to differentiate the confusing words by reading the example sentences, and then choose the appropriate word(s) to complete the sentence translation task. Results show students made substantial progress in terms of sentence structure. In addition, highly proficient students better managed to learn confusing words. In view of the influence of the first language on learners, we further propose an effective approach to improve the quality of the suggested sentences.
One of the challenges of building natural language processing (NLP) applications for education is finding a large domain-specific corpus for the subject of interest (e.g., history or science). To address this challenge, we propose a tool, Dexter, that extracts a subject-specific corpus from a heterogeneous corpus, such as Wikipedia, by relying on a small seed corpus and distributed document representations. We empirically show the impact of the generated corpus on language modeling, estimating word embeddings, and consequently, distractor generation, resulting in better performances than while using a general domain corpus, a heuristically constructed domain-specific corpus, and a corpus generated by a popular system: BootCaT.
In this paper, we investigate the impact of using 4 recent neural models for generating artificial errors to help train the neural grammatical error correction models. We conduct a battery of experiments on the effect of data size, models, and comparison with a rule-based approach.
Automated essay scoring systems typically rely on hand-crafted features to predict essay quality, but such systems are limited by the cost of feature engineering. Neural networks offer an alternative to feature engineering, but they typically require more annotated data. This paper explores network structures, contextualized embeddings and pre-training strategies aimed at capturing discourse characteristics of essays. Experiments on three essay scoring tasks show benefits from all three strategies in different combinations, with simpler architectures being more effective when less training data is available.
Automatic assessment of the proficiency levels of the learner is a critical part of Intelligent Tutoring Systems. We present methods for assessment in the context of language learning. We use a specialized Elo formula used in conjunction with educational data mining. We simultaneously obtain ratings for the proficiency of the learners and for the difficulty of the linguistic concepts that the learners are trying to master. From the same data we also learn a graph structure representing a domain model capturing the relations among the concepts. This application of Elo provides ratings for learners and concepts which correlate well with subjective proficiency levels of the learners and difficulty levels of the concepts.
We present a unique dataset of student source-based argument essays to facilitate research on the relations between content, argumentation skills, and assessment. Two classroom writing assignments were given to college students in a STEM major, accompanied by a carefully designed rubric. The paper presents a reliability study of the rubric, showing it to be highly reliable, and initial annotation on content and argumentation annotation of the essays.
We present Deep Generalized Canonical Correlation Analysis (DGCCA) {--} a method for learning nonlinear transformations of arbitrarily many views of data, such that the resulting transformations are maximally informative of each other. While methods for nonlinear two view representation learning (Deep CCA, (Andrew et al., 2013)) and linear many-view representation learning (Generalized CCA (Horst, 1961)) exist, DGCCA combines the flexibility of nonlinear (deep) representation learning with the statistical power of incorporating information from many sources, or views. We present the DGCCA formulation as well as an efficient stochastic optimization algorithm for solving it. We learn and evaluate DGCCA representations for three downstream tasks: phonetic transcription from acoustic {\&} articulatory measurements, recommending hashtags and recommending friends on a dataset of Twitter users.
While most previous work has focused on different pretraining objectives and architectures for transfer learning, we ask how to best adapt the pretrained model to a given target task. We focus on the two most common forms of adaptation, feature extraction (where the pretrained weights are frozen), and directly fine-tuning the pretrained model. Our empirical results across diverse NLP tasks with two state-of-the-art models show that the relative performance of fine-tuning vs. feature extraction depends on the similarity of the pretraining and target tasks. We explore possible explanations for this finding and provide a set of adaptation guidelines for the NLP practitioner.
Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have shown considerable success, especially in the realistic generation of images. In this work, we apply similar techniques for the generation of text. We propose a novel approach to handle the discrete nature of text, during training, using word embeddings. Our method is agnostic to vocabulary size and achieves competitive results relative to methods with various discrete gradient estimators.
In this paper, we explore a multilingual translation model with a cross-lingually shared layer that can be used as fixed-size sentence representation in different downstream tasks. We systematically study the impact of the size of the shared layer and the effect of including additional languages in the model. In contrast to related previous work, we demonstrate that the performance in translation does correlate with trainable downstream tasks. In particular, we show that larger intermediate layers not only improve translation quality, especially for long sentences, but also push the accuracy of trainable classification tasks. On the other hand, shorter representations lead to increased compression that is beneficial in non-trainable similarity tasks. We hypothesize that the training procedure on the downstream task enables the model to identify the encoded information that is useful for the specific task whereas non-trainable benchmarks can be confused by other types of information also encoded in the representation of a sentence.
In this paper, we propose an architecture for machine translation (MT) capable of obtaining multilingual sentence representations by incorporating an intermediate attention bridge that is shared across all languages. We train the model with language-specific encoders and decoders that are connected through an inner-attention layer on the encoder side. The attention bridge exploits the semantics from each language for translation and develops into a language-agnostic meaning representation that can efficiently be used for transfer learning. We present a new framework for the efficient development of multilingual neural machine translation (NMT) using this model and scheduled training. We have tested the approach in a systematic way with a multi-parallel data set. The model achieves substantial improvements over strong bilingual models and performs well for zero-shot translation, which demonstrates its ability of abstraction and transfer learning.
Reduction of the number of parameters is one of the most important goals in Deep Learning. In this article we propose an adaptation of Doubly Stochastic Variational Inference for Automatic Relevance Determination (DSVI-ARD) for neural networks compression. We find this method to be especially useful in language modeling tasks, where large number of parameters in the input and output layers is often excessive. We also show that DSVI-ARD can be applied together with encoder-decoder weight tying allowing to achieve even better sparsity and performance. Our experiments demonstrate that more than 90{\%} of the weights in both encoder and decoder layers can be removed with a minimal quality loss.
Word embeddings have undoubtedly revolutionized NLP. However, pretrained embeddings do not always work for a specific task (or set of tasks), particularly in limited resource setups. We introduce a simple yet effective, self-supervised post-processing method that constructs task-specialized word representations by picking from a menu of reconstructing transformations to yield improved end-task performance (MORTY). The method is complementary to recent state-of-the-art approaches to inductive transfer via fine-tuning, and forgoes costly model architectures and annotation. We evaluate MORTY on a broad range of setups, including different word embedding methods, corpus sizes and end-task semantics. Finally, we provide a surprisingly simple recipe to obtain specialized embeddings that better fit end-tasks.
Deep learning models continuously break new records across different NLP tasks. At the same time, their success exposes weaknesses of model evaluation. Here, we compile several key pitfalls of evaluation of sentence embeddings, a currently very popular NLP paradigm. These pitfalls include the comparison of embeddings of different sizes, normalization of embeddings, and the low (and diverging) correlations between transfer and probing tasks. Our motivation is to challenge the current evaluation of sentence embeddings and to provide an easy-to-access reference for future research. Based on our insights, we also recommend better practices for better future evaluations of sentence embeddings.
We propose a novel model architecture and training algorithm to learn bilingual sentence embeddings from a combination of parallel and monolingual data. Our method connects autoencoding and neural machine translation to force the source and target sentence embeddings to share the same space without the help of a pivot language or an additional transformation. We train a multilayer perceptron on top of the sentence embeddings to extract good bilingual sentence pairs from nonparallel or noisy parallel data. Our approach shows promising performance on sentence alignment recovery and the WMT 2018 parallel corpus filtering tasks with only a single model.
Semantic specialization methods fine-tune distributional word vectors using lexical knowledge from external resources (e.g. WordNet) to accentuate a particular relation between words. However, such post-processing methods suffer from limited coverage as they affect only vectors of words seen in the external resources. We present the first post-processing method that specializes vectors of all vocabulary words {--} including those unseen in the resources {--} for the asymmetric relation of lexical entailment (LE) (i.e., hyponymy-hypernymy relation). Leveraging a partially LE-specialized distributional space, our POSTLE (i.e., post-specialization for LE) model learns an explicit global specialization function, allowing for specialization of vectors of unseen words, as well as word vectors from other languages via cross-lingual transfer. We capture the function as a deep feed-forward neural network: its objective re-scales vector norms to reflect the concept hierarchy while simultaneously attracting hyponymy-hypernymy pairs to better reflect semantic similarity. An extended model variant augments the basic architecture with an adversarial discriminator. We demonstrate the usefulness and versatility of POSTLE models with different input distributional spaces in different scenarios (monolingual LE and zero-shot cross-lingual LE transfer) and tasks (binary and graded LE). We report consistent gains over state-of-the-art LE-specialization methods, and successfully LE-specialize word vectors for languages without any external lexical knowledge.
Vector representations of words have seen an increasing success over the past years in a variety of NLP tasks. While there seems to be a consensus about the usefulness of word embeddings and how to learn them, it is still unclear which representations can capture the meaning of phrases or even whole sentences. Recent work has shown that simple operations outperform more complex deep architectures. In this work, we propose two novel constraints for computing noun phrase vector representations. First, we propose that the semantic and not the syntactic contribution of each component of a noun phrase should be considered, so that the resulting composed vectors express more of the phrase meaning. Second, the composition process of the two phrase vectors should apply suitable dimensions{'} selection in a way that specific semantic features captured by the phrase{'}s meaning become more salient. Our proposed methods are compared to 11 other approaches, including popular baselines and a neural net architecture, and are evaluated across 6 tasks and 2 datasets. Our results show that these constraints lead to more expressive phrase representations and can be applied to other state-of-the-art methods to improve their performance.
In this paper we study the influence of using language model pre-training for named entity recognition for Historic German. We achieve new state-of-the-art results using carefully chosen training data for language models. For a low-resource domain like named entity recognition for Historic German, language model pre-training can be a strong competitor to CRF-only methods. We show that language model pre-training can be more effective than using transfer-learning with labeled datasets. Furthermore, we introduce a new language model pre-training objective, synthetic masked language model pre-training (SMLM), that allows a transfer from one domain (contemporary texts) to another domain (historical texts) by using only the same (character) vocabulary. Results show that using SMLM can achieve comparable results for Historic named entity recognition, even when they are only trained on contemporary texts. Our pre-trained character-based language models improve upon classical CRF-based methods and previous work on Bi-LSTMs by boosting F1 score performance by up to 6{\%}.
Knowledge graph embedding models have recently received significant attention in the literature. These models learn latent semantic representations for the entities and relations in a given knowledge base; the representations can be used to infer missing knowledge. In this paper, we study the question of how well recent embedding models perform for the task of knowledge base completion, i.e., the task of inferring new facts from an incomplete knowledge base. We argue that the entity ranking protocol, which is currently used to evaluate knowledge graph embedding models, is not suitable to answer this question since only a subset of the model predictions are evaluated. We propose an alternative entity-pair ranking protocol that considers all model predictions as a whole and is thus more suitable to the task. We conducted an experimental study on standard datasets and found that the performance of popular embeddings models was unsatisfactory under the new protocol, even on datasets that are generally considered to be too easy. Moreover, we found that a simple rule-based model often provided superior performance. Our findings suggest that there is a need for more research into embedding models as well as their training strategies for the task of knowledge base completion.
We propose a novel application of self-attention networks towards grammar induction. We present an attention-based supertagger for a refined type-logical grammar, trained on constructing types inductively. In addition to achieving a high overall type accuracy, our model is able to learn the syntax of the grammar{'}s type system along with its denotational semantics. This lifts the closed world assumption commonly made by lexicalized grammar supertaggers, greatly enhancing its generalization potential. This is evidenced both by its adequate accuracy over sparse word types and its ability to correctly construct complex types never seen during training, which, to the best of our knowledge, was as of yet unaccomplished.
We present a deep generative model of bilingual sentence pairs for machine translation. The model generates source and target sentences jointly from a shared latent representation and is parameterised by neural networks. We perform efficient training using amortised variational inference and reparameterised gradients. Additionally, we discuss the statistical implications of joint modelling and propose an efficient approximation to maximum a posteriori decoding for fast test-time predictions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model in three machine translation scenarios: in-domain training, mixed-domain training, and learning from a mix of gold-standard and synthetic data. Our experiments show consistently that our joint formulation outperforms conditional modelling (i.e. standard neural machine translation) in all such scenarios.
Bilingual word embeddings, which represent lexicons of different languages in a shared embedding space, are essential for supporting semantic and knowledge transfers in a variety of cross-lingual NLP tasks. Existing approaches to training bilingual word embeddings require either large collections of pre-defined seed lexicons that are expensive to obtain, or parallel sentences that comprise coarse and noisy alignment. In contrast, we propose BiLex that leverages publicly available lexical definitions for bilingual word embedding learning. Without the need of predefined seed lexicons, BiLex comprises a novel word pairing strategy to automatically identify and propagate the precise fine-grain word alignment from lexical definitions. We evaluate BiLex in word-level and sentence-level translation tasks, which seek to find the cross-lingual counterparts of words and sentences respectively. BiLex significantly outperforms previous embedding methods on both tasks.
Fine-tuning pre-trained language models has significantly advanced the state of art in a wide range of NLP downstream tasks. Usually, such language models are learned from large and well-formed text corpora from e.g. encyclopedic resources, books or news. However, a significant amount of the text to be analyzed nowadays is Web data, often from social media. In this paper we consider the research question: How do standard pre-trained language models generalize and capture the peculiarities of rather short, informal and frequently automatically generated text found in social media? To answer this question, we focus on bot detection in Twitter as our evaluation task and test the performance of fine-tuning approaches based on language models against popular neural architectures such as LSTM and CNN combined with pre-trained and contextualized embeddings. Our results also show strong performance variations among the different language model approaches, which suggest further research.
This paper extends the task of probing sentence representations for linguistic insight in a multilingual domain. In doing so, we make two contributions: first, we provide datasets for multilingual probing, derived from Wikipedia, in five languages, viz. English, French, German, Spanish and Russian. Second, we evaluate six sentence encoders for each language, each trained by mapping sentence representations to English sentence representations, using sentences in a parallel corpus. We discover that cross-lingually mapped representations are often better at retaining certain linguistic information than representations derived from English encoders trained on natural language inference (NLI) as a downstream task.
How can we represent hierarchical information present in large type inventories for entity typing? We study the suitability of hyperbolic embeddings to capture hierarchical relations between mentions in context and their target types in a shared vector space. We evaluate on two datasets and propose two different techniques to extract hierarchical information from the type inventory: from an expert-generated ontology and by automatically mining the dataset. The hyperbolic model shows improvements in some but not all cases over its Euclidean counterpart. Our analysis suggests that the adequacy of this geometry depends on the granularity of the type inventory and the representation of its distribution.
In this paper, we propose Multilingual Meta-Embeddings (MME), an effective method to learn multilingual representations by leveraging monolingual pre-trained embeddings. MME learns to utilize information from these embeddings via a self-attention mechanism without explicit language identification. We evaluate the proposed embedding method on the code-switching English-Spanish Named Entity Recognition dataset in a multilingual and cross-lingual setting. The experimental results show that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the multilingual setting, and it has the ability to generalize to an unseen language task.
For morphologically rich languages, word embeddings provide less consistent semantic representations due to higher variance in word forms. Moreover, these languages often allow for less constrained word order, which further increases variance. For the highly agglutinative Hungarian, semantic accuracy of word embeddings measured on word analogy tasks drops by 50-75{\%} compared to English. We observed that embeddings learn morphosyntax quite well instead. Therefore, we explore and evaluate several sub-word unit based embedding strategies {--} character n-grams, lemmatization provided by an NLP-pipeline, and segments obtained in unsupervised learning (morfessor) {--} to boost semantic consistency in Hungarian word vectors. The effect of changing embedding dimension and context window size have also been considered. Morphological analysis based lemmatization was found to be the best strategy to improve embeddings{'} semantic accuracy, whereas adding character n-grams was found consistently counterproductive in this regard.
Short text clustering is a challenging problem when adopting traditional bag-of-words or TF-IDF representations, since these lead to sparse vector representations of the short texts. Low-dimensional continuous representations or embeddings can counter that sparseness problem: their high representational power is exploited in deep clustering algorithms. While deep clustering has been studied extensively in computer vision, relatively little work has focused on NLP. The method we propose, learns discriminative features from both an autoencoder and a sentence embedding, then uses assignments from a clustering algorithm as supervision to update weights of the encoder network. Experiments on three short text datasets empirically validate the effectiveness of our method.
Word-based embedding approaches such as Word2Vec capture the meaning of words and relations between them, particularly well when trained with large text collections; however, they fail to do so with small datasets. Extensions such as fastText reduce the amount of data needed slightly, however, the joint task of learning meaningful morphology, syntactic and semantic representations still requires a lot of data. In this paper, we introduce a new approach to warm-start embedding models with morphological information, in order to reduce training time and enhance their performance. We use word embeddings generated using both word2vec and fastText models and enrich them with morphological information of words, derived from kernel principal component analysis (KPCA) of word similarity matrices. This can be seen as explicitly feeding the network morphological similarities and letting it learn semantic and syntactic similarities. Evaluating our models on word similarity and analogy tasks in English and German, we find that they not only achieve higher accuracies than the original skip-gram and fastText models but also require significantly less training data and time. Another benefit of our approach is that it is capable of generating a high-quality representation of infrequent words as, for example, found in very recent news articles with rapidly changing vocabularies. Lastly, we evaluate the different models on a downstream sentence classification task in which a CNN model is initialized with our embeddings and find promising results.
Since their inception, encoder-decoder models have successfully been applied to a wide array of problems in computational linguistics. The most recent successes are predominantly due to the use of different variations of attention mechanisms, but their cognitive plausibility is questionable. In particular, because past representations can be revisited at any point in time, attention-centric methods seem to lack an incentive to build up incrementally more informative representations of incoming sentences. This way of processing stands in stark contrast with the way in which humans are believed to process language: continuously and rapidly integrating new information as it is encountered. In this work, we propose three novel metrics to assess the behavior of RNNs with and without an attention mechanism and identify key differences in the way the different model types process sentences.
Adversarial training is a process in Machine Learning that explicitly trains models on adversarial inputs (inputs designed to deceive or trick the learning process) in order to make it more robust or accurate. In this paper we investigate how representing adversarial training models as committees can be used to effectively improve the performance of Question-Answer (QA) Ranking. We start by empirically probing the effects of adversarial training over multiple QA ranking algorithms, including the state-of-the-art Multihop Attention Network model. We evaluate these algorithms on several benchmark datasets and observe that, while adversarial training is beneficial to most baseline algorithms, there are cases where it may lead to overfitting and performance degradation. We investigate the causes of such degradation, and then propose a new representation procedure for this adversarial learning problem, based on committee learning, that not only is capable of consistently improving all baseline algorithms, but also outperforms the previous state-of-the-art algorithm by as much as 6{\%} in NDCG.
Most existing relation extraction models assume a fixed set of relations and are unable to adapt to exploit newly available supervision data to extract new relations. In order to alleviate such problems, there is the need to develop approaches that make relation extraction models capable of continuous adaptation and learning. We investigate and present results for such an approach, based on a combination of ideas from lifelong learning and optimization-based meta-learning. We evaluate the proposed approach on two recent lifelong relation extraction benchmarks, and demonstrate that it markedly outperforms current state-of-the-art approaches.
Cross-lingual embeddings aim to represent words in multiple languages in a shared vector space by capturing semantic similarities across languages. They are a crucial component for scaling tasks to multiple languages by transferring knowledge from languages with rich resources to low-resource languages. A common approach to learning cross-lingual embeddings is to train monolingual embeddings separately for each language and learn a linear projection from the monolingual spaces into a shared space, where the mapping relies on a small seed dictionary. While there are high-quality generic seed dictionaries and pre-trained cross-lingual embeddings available for many language pairs, there is little research on how they perform on specialised tasks. In this paper, we investigate the best practices for constructing the seed dictionary for a specific domain. We evaluate the embeddings on the sequence labelling task of Curriculum Vitae parsing and show that the size of a bilingual dictionary, the frequency of the dictionary words in the domain corpora and the source of data (task-specific vs generic) influence performance. We also show that the less training data is available in the low-resource language, the more the construction of the bilingual dictionary matters, and demonstrate that some of the choices are crucial in the zero-shot transfer learning case.
Pre-trained word embeddings are used in several downstream applications as well as for constructing representations for sentences, paragraphs and documents. Recently, there has been an emphasis on improving the pretrained word vectors through post-processing algorithms. One improvement area is reducing the dimensionality of word embeddings. Reducing the size of word embeddings can improve their utility in memory constrained devices, benefiting several real world applications. In this work, we present a novel technique that efficiently combines PCA based dimensionality reduction with a recently proposed post-processing algorithm (Mu and Viswanath, 2018), to construct effective word embeddings of lower dimensions. Empirical evaluations on several benchmarks show that our algorithm efficiently reduces the embedding size while achieving similar or (more often) better performance than original embeddings. We have released the source code along with this paper.
Most word embedding algorithms such as word2vec or fastText construct two sort of vectors: for words and for contexts. Naive use of vectors of only one sort leads to poor results. We suggest using indefinite inner product in skip-gram negative sampling algorithm. This allows us to use only one sort of vectors without loss of quality. Our {``}context-free{''} cf algorithm performs on par with SGNS on word similarity datasets
The scarcity of labeled training data across many languages is a significant roadblock for multilingual neural language processing. We approach the lack of in-language training data using sentence embeddings that map text written in different languages, but with similar meanings, to nearby embedding space representations. The representations are produced using a dual-encoder based model trained to maximize the representational similarity between sentence pairs drawn from parallel data. The representations are enhanced using multitask training and unsupervised monolingual corpora. The effectiveness of our multilingual sentence embeddings are assessed on a comprehensive collection of monolingual, cross-lingual, and zero-shot/few-shot learning tasks.
We propose a novel method, Modality-based Redundancy Reduction Fusion (MRRF), for understanding and modulating the relative contribution of each modality in multimodal inference tasks. This is achieved by obtaining an (\textit{M}+1)-way tensor to consider the high-order relationships between \textit{M} modalities and the output layer of a neural network model. Applying a modality-based tensor factorization method, which adopts different factors for different modalities, results in removing information present in a modality that can be compensated by other modalities, with respect to model outputs. This helps to understand the relative utility of information in each modality. In addition it leads to a less complicated model with less parameters and therefore could be applied as a regularizer avoiding overfitting. We have applied this method to three different multimodal datasets in sentiment analysis, personality trait recognition, and emotion recognition. We are able to recognize relationships and relative importance of different modalities in these tasks and achieves a 1{\%} to 4{\%} improvement on several evaluation measures compared to the state-of-the-art for all three tasks.
While the application of word embedding models to downstream Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks has been shown to be successful, the benefits for low-resource languages is somewhat limited due to lack of adequate data for training the models. However, NLP research efforts for low-resource languages have focused on constantly seeking ways to harness pre-trained models to improve the performance of NLP systems built to process these languages without the need to re-invent the wheel. One such language is Welsh and therefore, in this paper, we present the results of our experiments on learning a simple multi-task neural network model for part-of-speech and semantic tagging for Welsh using a pre-trained embedding model from FastText. Our model{'}s performance was compared with those of the existing rule-based stand-alone taggers for part-of-speech and semantic taggers. Despite its simplicity and capacity to perform both tasks simultaneously, our tagger compared very well with the existing taggers.
In this paper we describe our system for morphological analysis and lemmatization in context, using a transformer-based sequence to sequence model and a biaffine attention based BiLSTM model. First, a lemma is produced for a given word, and then both the lemma and the given word are used for morphological analysis. We also make use of character level word encodings and trainable encodings to improve accuracy. Overall, our system ranked fifth in lemmatization and sixth in morphological accuracy among twelve systems, and demonstrated considerable improvements over the baseline in morphological analysis.
This paper presents the submission by the CMU-01 team to the SIGMORPHON 2019 task 2 of Morphological Analysis and Lemmatization in Context. This task requires us to produce the lemma and morpho-syntactic description of each token in a sequence, for 107 treebanks. We approach this task with a hierarchical neural conditional random field (CRF) model which predicts each coarse-grained feature (eg. POS, Case, etc.) independently. However, most treebanks are under-resourced, thus making it challenging to train deep neural models for them. Hence, we propose a multi-lingual transfer training regime where we transfer from multiple related languages that share similar typology.
We present de-lexical segmentation, a linguistically motivated alternative to greedy or other unsupervised methods, requiring only minimal language specific input. Our technique involves creating a small grammar of closed-class affixes which can be written in a few hours. The grammar over generates analyses for word forms attested in a raw corpus which are disambiguated based on features of the linguistic base proposed for each form. Extending the grammar to cover orthographic, morpho-syntactic or lexical variation is simple, making it an ideal solution for challenging corpora with noisy, dialect-inconsistent, or otherwise non-standard content. In two evaluations, we consistently outperform competitive unsupervised baselines and approach the performance of state-of-the-art supervised models trained on large amounts of data, providing evidence for the value of linguistic input during preprocessing.
We show that MaxEnt is so rich that it can distinguish between any two different mappings: there always exists a nonnegative weight vector which assigns them different MaxEnt probabilities. Stochastic HG instead does admit equiprobable mappings and we give a complete formal characterization of them.
This paper situates culminative unbounded stress systems within the subregular hierarchy for functions. While Baek (2018) has argued that such systems can be uniformly understood as input tier-based strictly local constraints, we show here that default-to-opposite-side and default-to-same-side stress systems belong to distinct subregular classes when they are viewed as functions that assign primary stress to underlying forms. While the former system can be captured by input tier-based input strictly local functions, a subsequential function class that we define here, the latter system is not subsequential, though it is weakly deterministic according to McCollum et al.{'}s (2018) non-interaction criterion. Our results motivate the extension of recently proposed subregular language classes to subregular functions and argue in favor of McCollum et al{'}s definition of weak determinism over that of Heinz and Lai (2013).
In spontaneous speech, Mandarin tones that belong to the same tone category may exhibit many different contour shapes. We explore the use of time-series data mining techniques for understanding the variability of tones in a large corpus of Mandarin newscast speech. First, we adapt a graph-based approach to characterize the clusters (fuzzy types) of tone contour shapes observed in each tone n-gram category. Second, we show correlations between these realized contour shape clusters and a bag of automatically extracted linguistic features. We discuss the implications of the current study within the context of phonological and information theory.
We apply convolutional neural networks to the task of shallow morpheme segmentation using low-resource datasets for 5 different languages. We show that both in fully supervised and semi-supervised settings our model beats previous state-of-the-art approaches. We argue that convolutional neural networks reflect local nature of morpheme segmentation better than other semi-supervised approaches.
Recent work has looked at evaluation of phone embeddings using sound analogies and correlations between distinctive feature space and embedding space. It has not been clear what aspects of natural language phonology are learnt by neural network inspired distributed representational models such as word2vec. To study the kinds of phonological relationships learnt by phone embeddings, we present artificial phonology experiments that show that phone embeddings learn paradigmatic relationships such as phonemic and allophonic distribution quite well. They are also able to capture co-occurrence restrictions among vowels such as those observed in languages with vowel harmony. However, they are unable to learn co-occurrence restrictions among the class of consonants.
Previous {``}wug{''} tests (Berko, 1958) on Japanese verbal inflection have demonstrated that Japanese speakers, both adults and children, cannot inflect novel present tense forms to {``}correct{''} past tense forms predicted by rules of existent verbs (de Chene, 1982; Vance, 1987, 1991; Klafehn, 2003, 2013), indicating that Japanese verbs are merely stored in the mental lexicon. However, the implicit assumption that present tense forms are bases for verbal inflection should not be blindly extended to morphologically rich languages like Japanese in which both present and past tense forms are morphologically complex without inherent direction (Albright, 2002). Interestingly, there are also independent observations in the acquisition literature to suggest that past tense forms may be bases for verbal inflection in Japanese (Klafehn, 2003; Murasugi et al., 2010; Hirose, 2017; Tatsumi et al., 2018). In this paper, we computationally simulate two directions of verbal inflection in Japanese, Present → Past and Past → Present, with the rule-based computational model called Minimal Generalization Learner (MGL; Albright and Hayes, 2003) and experimentally evaluate the model with the bidirectional {``}wug{''} test where humans inflect novel verbs in two opposite directions. We conclude that Japanese verbs can be computed online via some generalizations and those generalizations do depend on the direction of morphological inflection.
This paper deals with the automatic enhancement of a new German morphological database. While there are some databases for flat word segmentation, this is the first available resource which can be directly used for deep parsing of German words. We combine the entries of this morphological database with the morphological tools SMOR and Moremorph and a context-based evaluation method which builds on a large Wikipedia corpus. We describe the state of the art and the essential characteristics of the database and the context method. The approach is tested on an inflight magazine of Lufthansa. We derive over 5,000 new instances of complex words. The coverage for the lemma types reaches up to over 99 percent. The precision of new found complex splits and monomorphemes is between 0.93 and 0.99.
Polysynthetic languages pose a challenge for morphological analysis due to the root-morpheme complexity and to the word class {``}squish{''}. In addition, many of these polysynthetic languages are low-resource. We propose unsupervised approaches for morphological segmentation of low-resource polysynthetic languages based on Adaptor Grammars (AG) (Eskander et al., 2016). We experiment with four languages from the Uto-Aztecan family. Our AG-based approaches outperform other unsupervised approaches and show promise when compared to supervised methods, outperforming them on two of the four languages.
Whether phonological transformations in general are subregular is an open question. This is the case for most transformations, which have been shown to be subsequential, but it is not known whether weakly deterministic mappings form a proper subset of the regular functions. This paper demonstrates that there are regular functions that are not weakly deterministic, and, because all attested processes are weakly deterministic, supports the subregular hypothesis.
We use sequence-to-sequence networks trained on sequential phonetic encoding tasks to construct compositional phonological representations of words. We show that the output of an encoder network can predict the phonetic durations of American English words better than a number of alternative forms. We also show that the model{'}s learned representations map onto existing measures of words{'} phonological structure (phonological neighborhood density and phonotactic probability).
This paper defines a subregular class of functions called the tier-based synchronized strictly local (TSSL) functions. These functions are similar to the the tier-based input-output strictly local (TIOSL) functions, except that the locality condition is enforced not on the input and output streams, but on the computation history of the minimal subsequential finite-state transducer. We show that TSSL functions naturally describe rhythmic syncope while TIOSL functions cannot, and we argue that TSSL functions provide a more restricted characterization of rhythmic syncope than existing treatments within Optimality Theory.
Progress in Machine Learning is often driven by the availability of large datasets, and consistent evaluation metrics for comparing modeling approaches. To this end, we present a repository of conversational datasets consisting of hundreds of millions of examples, and a standardised evaluation procedure for conversational response selection models using 1-of-100 accuracy. The repository contains scripts that allow researchers to reproduce the standard datasets, or to adapt the pre-processing and data filtering steps to their needs. We introduce and evaluate several competitive baselines for conversational response selection, whose implementations are shared in the repository, as well as a neural encoder model that is trained on the entire training set.
Conversational machine comprehension (CMC) requires understanding the context of multi-turn dialogue. Using BERT, a pretraining language model, has been successful for single-turn machine comprehension, while modeling multiple turns of question answering with BERT has not been established because BERT has a limit on the number and the length of input sequences. In this paper, we propose a simple but effective method with BERT for CMC. Our method uses BERT to encode a paragraph independently conditioned with each question and each answer in a multi-turn context. Then, the method predicts an answer on the basis of the paragraph representations encoded with BERT. The experiments with representative CMC datasets, QuAC and CoQA, show that our method outperformed recently published methods (+0.8 F1 on QuAC and +2.1 F1 on CoQA). In addition, we conducted a detailed analysis of the effects of the number and types of dialogue history on the accuracy of CMC, and we found that the gold answer history, which may not be given in an actual conversation, contributed to the model performance most on both datasets.
Sequence-to-Sequence (Seq2Seq) models have witnessed a notable success in generating natural conversational exchanges. Notwithstanding the syntactically well-formed responses generated by these neural network models, they are prone to be acontextual, short and generic. In this work, we introduce a Topical Hierarchical Recurrent Encoder Decoder (THRED), a novel, fully data-driven, multi-turn response generation system intended to produce contextual and topic-aware responses. Our model is built upon the basic Seq2Seq model by augmenting it with a hierarchical joint attention mechanism that incorporates topical concepts and previous interactions into the response generation. To train our model, we provide a clean and high-quality conversational dataset mined from Reddit comments. We evaluate THRED on two novel automated metrics, dubbed Semantic Similarity and Response Echo Index, as well as with human evaluation. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed model is able to generate more diverse and contextually relevant responses compared to the strong baselines.
Response suggestion is an important task for building human-computer conversation systems. Recent approaches to conversation modeling have introduced new model architectures with impressive results, but relatively little attention has been paid to whether these models would be practical in a production setting. In this paper, we describe the unique challenges of building a production retrieval-based conversation system, which selects outputs from a whitelist of candidate responses. To address these challenges, we propose a dual encoder architecture which performs rapid inference and scales well with the size of the whitelist. We also introduce and compare two methods for generating whitelists, and we carry out a comprehensive analysis of the model and whitelists. Experimental results on a large, proprietary help desk chat dataset, including both offline metrics and a human evaluation, indicate production-quality performance and illustrate key lessons about conversation modeling in practice.
This theoretical paper identifies a need for a definition of asymmetric co-creativity where creativity is expected from the computational agent but not from the human user. Our co-operative creativity framework takes into account that the computational agent has a message to convey in a co-operative fashion, which introduces a trade-off on how creative the computer can be. The requirements of co-operation are identified from an interdisciplinary point of view. We divide co-operative creativity in message creativity, contextual creativity and communicative creativity. Finally these notions are applied in the context of the Peace Machine system concept.
We propose a novel method for selecting coherent and diverse responses for a given dialogue context. The proposed method re-ranks response candidates generated from conversational models by using event causality relations between events in a dialogue history and response candidates (e.g., {``}be stressed out{''} precedes {``}relieve stress{''}). We use distributed event representation based on the Role Factored Tensor Model for a robust matching of event causality relations due to limited event causality knowledge of the system. Experimental results showed that the proposed method improved coherency and dialogue continuity of system responses.
Goal-oriented dialogue in complex domains is an extremely challenging problem and there are relatively few datasets. This task provided two new resources that presented different challenges: one was focused but small, while the other was large but diverse. We also considered several new variations on the next utterance selection problem: (1) increasing the number of candidates, (2) including paraphrases, and (3) not including a correct option in the candidate set. Twenty teams participated, developing a range of neural network models, including some that successfully incorporated external data to boost performance. Both datasets have been publicly released, enabling future work to build on these results, working towards robust goal-oriented dialogue systems.
We tackle the problem of context reconstruction in Chinese dialogue, where the task is to replace pronouns, zero pronouns, and other referring expressions with their referent nouns so that sentences can be processed in isolation without context. Following a standard decomposition of the context reconstruction task into referring expression detection and coreference resolution, we propose a novel end-to-end architecture for separately and jointly accomplishing this task. Key features of this model include POS and position encoding using CNNs and a novel pronoun masking mechanism. One perennial problem in building such models is the paucity of training data, which we address by augmenting previously-proposed methods to generate a large amount of realistic training data. The combination of more data and better models yields accuracy higher than the state-of-the-art method in coreference resolution and end-to-end context reconstruction.
The uncertainties of language and the complexity of dialogue contexts make accurate dialogue state tracking one of the more challenging aspects of dialogue processing. To improve state tracking quality, we argue that relationships between different aspects of dialogue state must be taken into account as they can often guide a more accurate interpretation process. To this end, we present an energy-based approach to dialogue state tracking as a structured classification task. The novelty of our approach lies in the use of an energy network on top of a deep learning architecture to explore more signal correlations between network variables including input features and output labels. We demonstrate that the energy-based approach improves the performance of a deep learning dialogue state tracker towards state-of-the-art results without the need for many of the other steps required by current state-of-the-art methods.
We describe and validate a metric for estimating multi-class classifier performance based on cross-validation and adapted for improvement of small, unbalanced natural-language datasets used in chatbot design. Our experiences draw upon building recruitment chatbots that mediate communication between job-seekers and recruiters by exposing the ML/NLP dataset to the recruiting team. Evaluation approaches must be understandable to various stakeholders, and useful for improving chatbot performance. The metric, nex-cv, uses negative examples in the evaluation of text classification, and fulfils three requirements. First, it is actionable: it can be used by non-developer staff. Second, it is not overly optimistic compared to human ratings, making it a fast method for comparing classifiers. Third, it allows model-agnostic comparison, making it useful for comparing systems despite implementation differences. We validate the metric based on seven recruitment-domain datasets in English and German over the course of one year.
Tracking the state of the conversation is a central component in task-oriented spoken dialogue systems. One such approach for tracking the dialogue state is slot carryover, where a model makes a binary decision if a slot from the context is relevant to the current turn. Previous work on the slot carryover task used models that made independent decisions for each slot. A close analysis of the results show that this approach results in poor performance over longer context dialogues. In this paper, we propose to jointly model the slots. We propose two neural network architectures, one based on pointer networks that incorporate slot ordering information, and the other based on transformer networks that uses self attention mechanism to model the slot interdependencies. Our experiments on an internal dialogue benchmark dataset and on the public DSTC2 dataset demonstrate that our proposed models are able to resolve longer distance slot references and are able to achieve competitive performance.
Dialogue systems and conversational agents are becoming increasingly popular in modern society. We conceptualized one such conversational agent, Microsoft{'}s {``}Ruuh{''} with the promise to be able to talk to its users on any subject they choose. Building an open-ended conversational agent like Ruuh at onset seems like a daunting task, since the agent needs to think beyond the utilitarian notion of merely generating {``}relevant{''} responses and meet a wider range of user social needs, like expressing happiness when user{'}s favourite sports team wins, sharing a cute comment on showing the pictures of the user{'}s pet and so on. The agent also needs to detect and respond to abusive language, sensitive topics and trolling behaviour of the users. Many of these problems pose significant research challenges as well as product design limitations as one needs to circumnavigate the technical limitations to create an acceptable user experience. However, as the product reaches the real users the true test begins, and one realizes the challenges and opportunities that lie in the vast domain of conversations. With over 2.5 million real-world users till date who have generated over 300 million user conversations with Ruuh, there is a plethora of learning, insights and opportunities that we will talk about in this paper.
Providing plausible responses to why questions is a challenging but critical goal for language based human-machine interaction. Explanations are challenging in that they require many different forms of abstract knowledge and reasoning. Previous work has either relied on human-curated structured knowledge bases or detailed domain representation to generate satisfactory explanations. They are also often limited to ranking pre-existing explanation choices. In our work, we contribute to the under-explored area of generating natural language explanations for general phenomena. We automatically collect large datasets of explanation-phenomenon pairs which allow us to train sequence-to-sequence models to generate natural language explanations. We compare different training strategies and evaluate their performance using both automatic scores and human ratings. We demonstrate that our strategy is sufficient to generate highly plausible explanations for general open-domain phenomena compared to other models trained on different datasets.
We propose an adversarial learning approach for generating multi-turn dialogue responses. Our proposed framework, hredGAN, is based on conditional generative adversarial networks (GANs). The GAN{'}s generator is a modified hierarchical recurrent encoder-decoder network (HRED) and the discriminator is a word-level bidirectional RNN that shares context and word embeddings with the generator. During inference, noise samples conditioned on the dialogue history are used to perturb the generator{'}s latent space to generate several possible responses. The final response is the one ranked best by the discriminator. The hredGAN shows improved performance over existing methods: (1) it generalizes better than networks trained using only the log-likelihood criterion, and (2) it generates longer, more informative and more diverse responses with high utterance and topic relevance even with limited training data. This performance improvement is demonstrated on the Movie triples and Ubuntu dialogue datasets with both the automatic and human evaluations.
A sequence-to-sequence model tends to generate generic responses with little information for input utterances. To solve this problem, we propose a neural model that generates relevant and informative responses. Our model has simple architecture to enable easy application to existing neural dialogue models. Specifically, using positive pointwise mutual information, it first identifies keywords that frequently co-occur in responses given an utterance. Then, the model encourages the decoder to use the keywords for response generation. Experiment results demonstrate that our model successfully diversifies responses relative to previous models.
A neural conversation model is a promising approach to develop dialogue systems with the ability of chit-chat. It allows training a model in an end-to-end manner without complex rule design nor feature engineering. However, as a side effect, the neural model tends to generate safe but uninformative and insensitive responses like {``}OK{''} and {``}I don{'}t know.{''} Such replies are called generic responses and regarded as a critical problem for user-engagement of dialogue systems. For a more engaging chit-chat experience, we propose a neural conversation model that generates responsive and self-expressive replies. Specifically, our model generates domain-aware and sentiment-rich responses. Experiments empirically confirmed that our model outperformed the sequence-to-sequence model; 68.1{\%} of our responses were domain-aware with sentiment polarities, which was only 2.7{\%} for responses generated by the sequence-to-sequence model.
We address the issue of acquiring quality annotations of hedging words and phrases, linguistic phenomenona in which words, sounds, or other constructions are used to express ambiguity or uncertainty. Due to the limited availability of existing corpora annotated for hedging, linguists and other language scientists have been constrained as to the extent they can study this phenomenon. In this paper, we introduce a new method of acquiring hedging annotations via crowdsourcing, based on reformulating the task of labeling hedges as a simple word sense disambiguation task. We also introduce a new hedging corpus we have constructed by applying this method, a collection of forum posts annotated using Amazon Mechanical Turk. We found that the crowdsourced judgments we obtained had an inter-annotator agreement of 92.89{\%} (Fleiss{'} Kappa=0.751) and, when comparing a subset of these annotations to an expert-annotated gold standard, an accuracy of 96.65{\%}.
We build a reference for the task of Open Information Extraction, on five documents. We tentatively resolve a number of issues that arise, including coreference and granularity, and we take steps toward addressing inference, a significant problem. We seek to better pinpoint the requirements for the task. We produce our annotation guidelines specifying what is correct to extract and what is not. In turn, we use this reference to score existing Open IE systems. We address the non-trivial problem of evaluating the extractions produced by systems against the reference tuples, and share our evaluation script. Among seven compared extractors, we find the MinIE system to perform best.
The perspective of being able to crowd-source coherence relations bears the promise of acquiring annotations for new texts quickly, which could then increase the size and variety of discourse-annotated corpora. It would also open the avenue to answering new research questions: Collecting annotations from a larger number of individuals per instance would allow to investigate the distribution of inferred relations, and to study individual differences in coherence relation interpretation. However, annotating coherence relations with untrained workers is not trivial. We here propose a novel two-step annotation procedure, which extends an earlier method by Scholman and Demberg (2017a). In our approach, coherence relation labels are inferred from connectives that workers insert into the text. We show that the proposed method leads to replicable coherence annotations, and analyse the agreement between the obtained relation labels and annotations from PDTB and RSTDT on the same texts.
Pairs of sentences, phrases, or other text pieces can hold semantic relations such as paraphrasing, textual entailment, contradiction, specificity, and semantic similarity. These relations are usually studied in isolation and no dataset exists where they can be compared empirically. Here we present a corpus annotated with these relations and the analysis of these results. The corpus contains 520 sentence pairs, annotated with these relations. We measure the annotation reliability of each individual relation and we examine their interactions and correlations. Among the unexpected results revealed by our analysis is that the traditionally considered direct relationship between paraphrasing and bi-directional entailment does not hold in our data.
We present the first open-source graphical annotation tool for combinatory categorial grammar (CCG), and the first set of detailed guidelines for syntactic annotation with CCG, for four languages: English, German, Italian, and Dutch. We also release a parallel pilot CCG treebank based on these guidelines, with 4x100 adjudicated sentences, 10K single-annotator fully corrected sentences, and 82K single-annotator partially corrected sentences.
To date, corpus and computational linguistic work on written language acquisition has mostly dealt with second language learners who have usually already mastered orthography acquisition in their first language. In this paper, we present the Litkey Corpus, a richly-annotated longitudinal corpus of written texts produced by primary school children in Germany from grades 2 to 4. The paper focuses on the (semi-)automatic annotation procedure at various linguistic levels, which include POS tags, features of the word-internal structure (phonemes, syllables, morphemes) and key orthographic features of the target words as well as a categorization of spelling errors. Comprehensive evaluations show that high accuracy was achieved on all levels, making the Litkey Corpus a useful resource for corpus-based research on literacy acquisition of German primary school children and for developing NLP tools for educational purposes. The corpus is freely available under https://www.linguistics.rub.de/litkeycorpus/.
Materials science literature contains millions of materials synthesis procedures described in unstructured natural language text. Large-scale analysis of these synthesis procedures would facilitate deeper scientific understanding of materials synthesis and enable automated synthesis planning. Such analysis requires extracting structured representations of synthesis procedures from the raw text as a first step. To facilitate the training and evaluation of synthesis extraction models, we introduce a dataset of 230 synthesis procedures annotated by domain experts with labeled graphs that express the semantics of the synthesis sentences. The nodes in this graph are synthesis operations and their typed arguments, and labeled edges specify relations between the nodes. We describe this new resource in detail and highlight some specific challenges to annotating scientific text with shallow semantic structure. We make the corpus available to the community to promote further research and development of scientific information extraction systems.
Primary data from small, low-resource languages of Oceania have only recently become available through language documentation. In our study, we explore corpus data of five Oceanic languages of Melanesia which are known to be mood-prominent (in the sense of Bhat, 1999). In order to find out more about tense, aspect, modality, and polarity, we tagged these categories in a subset of our corpora. For the category of modality, we developed a novel tag set (MelaTAMP, 2017), which categorizes clauses into factual, possible, and counterfactual. Based on an analysis of the inter-annotator consistency, we argue that our tag set for the modal domain is efficient for our subject languages and might be useful for other languages and purposes.
The interoperability between lemmatized corpora of Latin and other resources that use the lemma as indexing key is hampered by the multiple lemmatization strategies that different projects adopt. In this paper we discuss how we tackle the challenges raised by harmonizing different lemmatization criteria in the context of a project that aims to connect linguistic resources for Latin using the Linked Data paradigm. The paper introduces the architecture supporting an open-ended, lemma-based Knowledge Base, built to make textual and lexical resources for Latin interoperable. Particularly, the paper describes the inclusion into the Knowledge Base of its lexical basis, of a word formation lexicon and of a lemmatized and syntactically annotated corpus.
Corpora curated by experts have sustained Natural Language Processing mainly in English, but the expensiveness of corpora creation is a barrier for the development in further languages. Thus, we propose a corpus generation strategy that only requires a machine translation system between English and the target language in both directions, where we filter the best translations by computing automatic translation metrics and the task performance score. By studying Reading Comprehension in Spanish and Word Sense Disambiguation in Portuguese, we identified that a more quality-oriented metric has high potential in the corpora selection without degrading the task performance. We conclude that it is possible to systematise the building of quality corpora using machine translation and automatic metrics, besides some prior effort to clean and process the data.
Understanding what is expected of academic writing can be difficult for novice writers to assimilate, and recent years have seen several automated tools become available to support academic writing. Our work presents a framework for annotating features of the Related Work section of academic writing, that supports writer feedback.
Understanding the inferential principles underpinning an argument is essential to the proper interpretation and evaluation of persuasive discourse. Argument schemes capture the conventional patterns of reasoning appealed to in persuasion. The empirical study of these patterns relies on the availability of data about the actual use of argumentation in communicative practice. Annotated corpora of argument schemes, however, are scarce, small, and unrepresentative. Aiming to address this issue, we present one step in the development of improved datasets by integrating the Argument Scheme Key {--} a novel annotation method based on one of the most popular typologies of argument schemes {--} into the widely used OVA software for argument analysis.
This paper presents the identification of formulaic sequences in the reference corpus of spoken Slovenian and their annotation in terms of syntactic structure, pragmatic function and lexicographic relevance. The annotation campaign, specific in terms of setting, subjectivity and the multifunctionality of items under investigation, resulted in a preliminary lexicon of formulaic sequences in spoken Slovenian with immediate potential for future explorations in formulaic language research. This is especially relevant for the notable number of identified multi-word expressions with discourse-structuring and stance-marking functions, which have often been overlooked by traditional phraseology research.
We present a discourse annotation study, in which an annotation method based on Questions under Discussion (QuD) is applied to Italian data. The results of our inter-annotator agreement analysis show that the QUD-based approach, originally spelled out for English and German, can successfully be transferred cross-linguistically, supporting good agreement for the annotation of central information structure notions such as focus and non-at-issueness. Our annotation and interannotator agreement study on Italian authentic data confirms the cross-linguistic applicability of the QuD-based approach.
Definition extraction has been a popular topic in NLP research for well more than a decade, but has been historically limited to well-defined, structured, and narrow conditions. In reality, natural language is messy, and messy data requires both complex solutions and data that reflects that reality. In this paper, we present a robust English corpus and annotation schema that allows us to explore the less straightforward examples of term-definition structures in free and semi-structured text.
The vast amount of research introducing new corpora and techniques for semi-automatically annotating corpora shows the important role that datasets play in today{'}s research, especially in the machine learning community. This rapid development raises concerns about the quality of the datasets created and consequently of the models trained, as recently discussed with respect to the Natural Language Inference (NLI) task. In this work we conduct an annotation experiment based on a small subset of the SICK corpus. The experiment reveals several problems in the annotation guidelines, and various challenges of the NLI task itself. Our quantitative evaluation of the experiment allows us to assign our empirical observations to specific linguistic phenomena and leads us to recommendations for future annotation tasks, for NLI and possibly for other tasks.
This paper investigates the use of explicitly signalled discourse relations in persuasive texts. We present a corpus study where we control for speaker and topic and show that the distribution of different discourse connectives varies considerably across different discourse settings. While this variation can be explained by genre differences, we also observe variation regarding the distribution of discourse relations across different settings. This variation, however, cannot be easily explained by genre differences. We argue that the differences regarding the use of discourse relations reflects different strategies of persuasion and that these might be due to audience design.
We present a more efficient version of the e-magyar NLP pipeline for Hungarian called emtsv. It integrates Hungarian NLP tools in a framework whose individual modules can be developed or replaced independently and allows new ones to be added. The design also allows convenient investigation and manual correction of the data flow from one module to another. The improvements we publish include effective communication between the modules and support of the use of individual modules both in the chain and standing alone. Our goals are accomplished using extended tsv (tab separated values) files, a simple, uniform, generic and self-documenting input/output format. Our vision is maintaining the system for a long time and making it easier for external developers to fit their own modules into the system, thus sharing existing competencies in the field of processing Hungarian, a mid-resourced language. The source code is available under LGPL 3.0 license at https://github.com/dlt-rilmta/emtsv .
In this paper, we present the current version of two different treebanks, the re-annotation of the Turkish PUD Treebank and the first annotation of the Turkish National Corpus Universal Dependency (henceforth TNC-UD). The annotation of both treebanks, the Turkish PUD Treebank and TNC-UD, was carried out based on the decisions concerning linguistic adequacy of re-annotation of the Turkish IMST-UD Treebank (T{\"u
We present a data set of 1460 Hindi-English code-mixed tweets consisting of 20,949 tokens labelled with Proposition Bank labels marking their semantic roles. We created verb frames for complex predicates present in the corpus and formulated mappings from Paninian dependency labels to Proposition Bank labels. With the help of these mappings and the dependency tree, we propose a baseline rule based system for Semantic Role Labelling of Hindi-English code-mixed data. We obtain an accuracy of 96.74{\%} for Argument Identification and are able to further classify 73.93{\%} of the labels correctly. While there is relevant ongoing research on Semantic Role Labelling and on building tools for code-mixed social media data, this is the first attempt at labelling semantic roles in code-mixed data, to the best of our knowledge.
This paper describes an ecosystem consisting of three independent text annotation platforms. To demonstrate their ability to work in concert, we illustrate how to use them to address an interactive domain adaptation task in biomedical entity recognition. The platforms and the approach are in general domain-independent and can be readily applied to other areas of science.
In this paper we present a new annotation scheme for the Sejong part-of-speech tagged corpus based on Universal Dependencies style annotation. By using a new annotation scheme, we can produce Sejong-style morphological analysis and part-of-speech tagging results which have been the \textit{de facto} standard for Korean language processing. We also explore the possibility of doing named-entity recognition and semantic-role labelling for Korean using the new annotation scheme.
Author profiling is the identification of an author{'}s gender, age, and language from his/her texts. With the increasing trend of using Twitter as a means to express thought, profiling the gender of an author from his/her tweets has become a challenge. Although several datasets in different languages have been released on this problem, there is still a need for multilingualism. In this work, we propose a dataset of tweets of Turkish Twitter users which are labeled with their gender information. The dataset has 3368 users in training set and 1924 users in test set where each user has 100 tweets. The dataset is publicly available.
Lexical simplification systems replace complex words with simple ones based on a model of which words are complex in context. We explore how users can help train complex word identification models through labelling more efficiently and reliably. We show that using an interface where annotators make comparative rather than binary judgments leads to more reliable and consistent labels, and explore whether comparative judgments may provide a faster way for collecting labels.
Today{'}s widely used annotation tools were designed for annotating typically short textual mentions of entities or relations, making their interface cumbersome to use for long(er) stretches of text, e.g, sentences running over several lines in a document. They also lack systematic support for hierarchically structured labels, i.e., one label being conceptually more general than another (e.g., anamnesis in relation to family anamnesis). Moreover, as a more fundamental shortcoming of today{'}s tools, they provide no continuous quality con trol mechanisms for the annotation process, an essential feature to intrinsically support iterative cycles in the development of annotation guidelines. We alleviated these problems by developing WAT-SL 2.0, an open-source web-based annotation tool for long-segment labeling, hierarchically structured label sets and built-ins for quality control.
In this article, an ongoing research is presented, the immediate goal of which is to create a corpus annotated with semantic role labels for Hungarian that can be used to train a parser-based system capable of formulating relevant questions about the text it processes. We briefly describe the objectives of our research, our efforts at eliminating errors in the Hungarian Universal Dependencies corpus, which we use as the base of our annotation effort, at creating a Hungarian verbal argument database annotated with thematic roles, at classifying adjuncts, and at matching verbal argument frames to specific occurrences of verbs and participles in the corpus.
The present study proposes an annotation scheme for classifying the content and discourse contribution of question-answer pairs. We propose detailed guidelines for using the scheme and apply them to dialogues in English, Spanish, and Dutch. Finally, we report on initial machine learning experiments for automatic annotation.
Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) is a recent and prominent semantic representation with good acceptance and several applications in the Natural Language Processing area. For English, there is a large annotated corpus (with approximately 39K sentences) that supports the research with the representation. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is only one restricted corpus for Portuguese, which contains 1,527 sentences. In this context, this paper presents an effort to build a general purpose AMR-annotated corpus for Brazilian Portuguese by translating and adapting AMR English guidelines. Our results show that such approach is feasible, but there are some challenging phenomena to solve. More than this, efforts are necessary to increase the coverage of the corresponding lexical resource that supports the annotation.
This work attempts to explain the types of computation that neural networks can perform by relating them to automata. We first define what it means for a real-time network with bounded precision to accept a language. A measure of network memory follows from this definition. We then characterize the classes of languages acceptable by various recurrent networks, attention, and convolutional networks. We find that LSTMs function like counter machines and relate convolutional networks to the subregular hierarchy. Overall, this work attempts to increase our understanding and ability to interpret neural networks through the lens of theory. These theoretical insights help explain neural computation, as well as the relationship between neural networks and natural language grammar.
While sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models achieve state-of-the-art performance in many natural language processing tasks, they can be too slow for real-time applications. One performance bottleneck is predicting the most likely next token over a large vocabulary; methods to circumvent this bottleneck are a current research topic. We focus specifically on using seq2seq models for semantic parsing, where we observe that grammars often exist which specify valid formal representations of utterance semantics. By developing a generic approach for restricting the predictions of a seq2seq model to grammatically permissible continuations, we arrive at a widely applicable technique for speeding up semantic parsing. The technique leads to a 74{\%} speed-up on an in-house dataset with a large vocabulary, compared to the same neural model without grammatical restrictions
We analyse Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) to understand the significance of multiple LSTM layers. We argue that the Weighted Finite-state Automata (WFA) trained using a spectral learning algorithm are helpful to analyse RNNs. Our results suggest that multiple LSTM layers in RNNs help learning distributed hidden states, but have a smaller impact on the ability to learn long-term dependencies. The analysis is based on the empirical results, however relevant theory (whenever possible) was discussed to justify and support our conclusions.
In order to successfully model Long Distance Dependencies (LDDs) it is necessary to under-stand the full-range of the characteristics of the LDDs exhibited in a target dataset. In this paper, we use Strictly k-Piecewise languages to generate datasets with various properties. We then compute the characteristics of the LDDs in these datasets using mutual information and analyze the impact of factors such as (i) k, (ii) length of LDDs, (iii) vocabulary size, (iv) forbidden strings, and (v) dataset size. This analysis reveal that the number of interacting elements in a dependency is an important characteristic of LDDs. This leads us to the challenge of modelling multi-element long-distance dependencies. Our results suggest that attention mechanisms in neural networks may aide in modeling datasets with multi-element long-distance dependencies. However, we conclude that there is a need to develop more efficient attention mechanisms to address this issue.
In this paper, we systematically assess the ability of standard recurrent networks to perform dynamic counting and to encode hierarchical representations. All the neural models in our experiments are designed to be small-sized networks both to prevent them from memorizing the training sets and to visualize and interpret their behaviour at test time. Our results demonstrate that the Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks can learn to recognize the well-balanced parenthesis language (Dyck-1) and the shuffles of multiple Dyck-1 languages, each defined over different parenthesis-pairs, by emulating simple real-time k-counter machines. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first study to introduce the shuffle languages to analyze the computational power of neural networks. We also show that a single-layer LSTM with only one hidden unit is practically sufficient for recognizing the Dyck-1 language. However, none of our recurrent networks was able to yield a good performance on the Dyck-2 language learning task, which requires a model to have a stack-like mechanism for recognition.
The purpose of this paper is to present an empirical study on gender bias in text. Current research in this field is focused on detecting and correcting for gender bias in existing machine learning models rather than approaching the issue at the dataset level. The underlying motivation is to create a dataset which could enable machines to learn to differentiate bias writing from non-bias writing. A taxonomy is proposed for structural and contextual gender biases which can manifest themselves in text. A methodology is proposed to fetch one type of structural gender bias, Gender Generalization. We explore the IMDB movie review dataset and 9 different corpora from Project Gutenberg. By filtering out irrelevant sentences, the remaining pool of candidate sentences are sent for human validation. A total of 6123 judgments are made on 1627 sentences and after a quality check on randomly selected sentences we obtain an accuracy of 75{\%}. Out of the 1627 sentences, 808 sentence were labeled as Gender Generalizations. The inter-rater reliability amongst labelers was of 61.14{\%}.
Modern models for common NLP tasks often employ machine learning techniques and train on journalistic, social media, or other culturally-derived text. These have recently been scrutinized for racial and gender biases, rooting from inherent bias in their training text. These biases are often sub-optimal and recent work poses methods to rectify them; however, these biases may shed light on actual racial or gender gaps in the culture(s) that produced the training text, thereby helping us understand cultural context through big data. This paper presents an approach for quantifying gender bias in word embeddings, and then using them to characterize statistical gender gaps in education, politics, economics, and health. We validate these metrics on 2018 Twitter data spanning 51 U.S. regions and 99 countries. We correlate state and country word embedding biases with 18 international and 5 U.S.-based statistical gender gaps, characterizing regularities and predictive strength.
Prior work has shown that word embeddings capture human stereotypes, including gender bias. However, there is a lack of studies testing the presence of specific gender bias categories in word embeddings across diverse domains. This paper aims to fill this gap by applying the WEAT bias detection method to four sets of word embeddings trained on corpora from four different domains: news, social networking, biomedical and a gender-balanced corpus extracted from Wikipedia (GAP). We find that some domains are definitely more prone to gender bias than others, and that the categories of gender bias present also vary for each set of word embeddings. We detect some gender bias in GAP. We also propose a simple but novel method for discovering new bias categories by clustering word embeddings. We validate this method through WEAT{'}s hypothesis testing mechanism and find it useful for expanding the relatively small set of well-known gender bias word categories commonly used in the literature.
Gender bias is highly impacting natural language processing applications. Word embeddings have clearly been proven both to keep and amplify gender biases that are present in current data sources. Recently, contextualized word embeddings have enhanced previous word embedding techniques by computing word vector representations dependent on the sentence they appear in. In this paper, we study the impact of this conceptual change in the word embedding computation in relation with gender bias. Our analysis includes different measures previously applied in the literature to standard word embeddings. Our findings suggest that contextualized word embeddings are less biased than standard ones even when the latter are debiased.
Bias in word representations, such as Word2Vec, has been widely reported and investigated, and efforts made to debias them. We apply the debiasing conceptor for post-processing both traditional and contextualized word embeddings. Our method can simultaneously remove racial and gender biases from word representations. Unlike standard debiasing methods, the debiasing conceptor can utilize heterogeneous lists of biased words without loss in performance. Finally, our empirical experiments show that the debiasing conceptor diminishes racial and gender bias of word representations as measured using the Word Embedding Association Test (WEAT) of Caliskan et al. (2017).
When translating from a language that does not morphologically mark information such as gender and number into a language that does, translation systems must {``}guess{''} this missing information, often leading to incorrect translations in the given context. We propose a black-box approach for injecting the missing information to a pre-trained neural machine translation system, allowing to control the morphological variations in the generated translations without changing the underlying model or training data. We evaluate our method on an English to Hebrew translation task, and show that it is effective in injecting the gender and number information and that supplying the correct information improves the translation accuracy in up to 2.3 BLEU on a female-speaker test set for a state-of-the-art online black-box system. Finally, we perform a fine-grained syntactic analysis of the generated translations that shows the effectiveness of our method.
Systemic bias in word embeddings has been widely reported and studied, and efforts made to debias them; however, new contextualized embeddings such as ELMo and BERT are only now being similarly studied. Standard debiasing methods require heterogeneous lists of target words to identify the {``}bias subspace{''}. We show show that using new contextualized word embeddings in conceptor debiasing allows us to more accurately debias word embeddings by breaking target word lists into more homogeneous subsets and then combining ({''}Or{'}ing{''}) the debiasing conceptors of the different subsets.
In this work, we investigate the presence of occupational gender stereotypes in sentiment analysis models. Such a task has implications in reducing implicit biases in these models, which are being applied to an increasingly wide variety of downstream tasks. We release a new gender-balanced dataset of 800 sentences pertaining to specific professions and propose a methodology for using it as a test bench to evaluate sentiment analysis models. We evaluate the presence of occupational gender stereotypes in 3 different models using our approach, and explore their relationship with societal perceptions of occupations.
(Bolukbasi et al., 2016) demonstrated that pretrained word embeddings can inherit gender bias from the data they were trained on. We investigate how this bias affects downstream classification tasks, using the case study of occupation classification (De-Arteaga et al., 2019). We show that traditional techniques for debiasing embeddings can actually worsen the bias of the downstream classifier by providing a less noisy channel for communicating gender information. With a relatively minor adjustment, however, we show how these same techniques can be used to simultaneously reduce bias and maintain high classification accuracy.
This paper explains the TALP-UPC participation for the Gendered Pronoun Resolution shared-task of the 1st ACL Workshop on Gender Bias for Natural Language Processing. We have implemented two models for mask language modeling using pre-trained BERT adjusted to work for a classification problem. The proposed solutions are based on the word probabilities of the original BERT model, but using common English names to replace the original test names.
The pre-trained BERT model achieves a remarkable state of the art across a wide range of tasks in natural language processing. For solving the gender bias in gendered pronoun resolution task, I propose a novel neural network model based on the pre-trained BERT. This model is a type of mention score classifier and uses an attention mechanism with no parameters to compute the contextual representation of entity span, and a vector to represent the triple-wise semantic similarity among the pronoun and the entities. In stage 1 of the gendered pronoun resolution task, a variant of this model, trained in the fine-tuning approach, reduced the multi-class logarithmic loss to 0.3033 in the 5-fold cross-validation of training set and 0.2795 in testing set. Besides, this variant won the 2nd place with a score at 0.17289 in stage 2 of the task. The code in this paper is available at: https://github.com/ziliwang/MSnet-for-Gendered-Pronoun-Resolution
In this paper, we describe our entry in the gendered pronoun resolution competition which achieved fourth place without data augmentation. Our method is an ensemble system of BERTs which resolves co-reference in an interaction space. We report four insights from our work: BERT{'}s representations involve significant redundancy; modeling interaction effects similar to natural language inference models is useful for this task; there is an optimal BERT layer to extract representations for pronoun resolution; and the difference between the attention weights from the pronoun to the candidate entities was highly correlated with the correct label, with interesting implications for future work.
Pronoun resolution is part of coreference resolution, the task of pairing an expression to its referring entity. This is an important task for natural language understanding and a necessary component of machine translation systems, chat bots and assistants. Neural machine learning systems perform far from ideally in this task, reaching as low as 73{\%} F1 scores on modern benchmark datasets. Moreover, they tend to perform better for masculine pronouns than for feminine ones. Thus, the problem is both challenging and important for NLP researchers and practitioners. In this project, we describe our BERT-based approach to solving the problem of gender-balanced pronoun resolution. We are able to reach 92{\%} F1 score and a much lower gender bias on the benchmark dataset shared by Google AI Language team.
We present our 7th place solution to the Gendered Pronoun Resolution challenge, which uses BERT without fine-tuning and a novel augmentation strategy designed for contextual embedding token-level tasks. Our method anonymizes the referent by replacing candidate names with a set of common placeholder names. Besides the usual benefits of effectively increasing training data size, this approach diversifies idiosyncratic information embedded in names. Using same set of common first names can also help the model recognize names better, shorten token length, and remove gender and regional biases associated with names. The system scored 0.1947 log loss in stage 2, where the augmentation contributed to an improvements of 0.04. Post-competition analysis shows that, when using different embedding layers, the system scores 0.1799 which would be third place.
Neural machine translation has significantly pushed forward the quality of the field. However, there are remaining big issues with the output translations and one of them is fairness. Neural models are trained on large text corpora which contain biases and stereotypes. As a consequence, models inherit these social biases. Recent methods have shown results in reducing gender bias in other natural language processing tools such as word embeddings. We take advantage of the fact that word embeddings are used in neural machine translation to propose a method to equalize gender biases in neural machine translation using these representations. Specifically, we propose, experiment and analyze the integration of two debiasing techniques over GloVe embeddings in the Transformer translation architecture. We evaluate our proposed system on the WMT English-Spanish benchmark task, showing gains up to one BLEU point. As for the gender bias evaluation, we generate a test set of occupations and we show that our proposed system learns to equalize existing biases from the baseline system.
The impressive progress in many Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications has increased the awareness of some of the biases these NLP systems have with regards to gender identities. In this paper, we propose an approach to extend biased single-output gender-blind NLP systems with gender-specific alternative reinflections. We focus on Arabic, a gender-marking morphologically rich language, in the context of machine translation (MT) from English, and for first-person-singular constructions only. Our contributions are the development of a system-independent gender-awareness wrapper, and the building of a corpus for training and evaluating first-person-singular gender identification and reinflection in Arabic. Our results successfully demonstrate the viability of this approach with 8{\%} relative increase in Bleu score for first-person-singular feminine, and 5.3{\%} comparable increase for first-person-singular masculine on top of a state-of-the-art gender-blind MT system on a held-out test set.
Contextual word embeddings such as BERT have achieved state of the art performance in numerous NLP tasks. Since they are optimized to capture the statistical properties of training data, they tend to pick up on and amplify social stereotypes present in the data as well. In this study, we (1) propose a template-based method to quantify bias in BERT; (2) show that this method obtains more consistent results in capturing social biases than the traditional cosine based method; and (3) conduct a case study, evaluating gender bias in a downstream task of Gender Pronoun Resolution. Although our case study focuses on gender bias, the proposed technique is generalizable to unveiling other biases, including in multiclass settings, such as racial and religious biases.
Ethics regarding social bias has recently thrown striking issues in natural language processing. Especially for gender-related topics, the need for a system that reduces the model bias has grown in areas such as image captioning, content recommendation, and automated employment. However, detection and evaluation of gender bias in the machine translation systems are not yet thoroughly investigated, for the task being cross-lingual and challenging to define. In this paper, we propose a scheme for making up a test set that evaluates the gender bias in a machine translation system, with Korean, a language with gender-neutral pronouns. Three word/phrase sets are primarily constructed, each incorporating positive/negative expressions or occupations; all the terms are gender-independent or at least not biased to one side severely. Then, additional sentence lists are constructed concerning formality of the pronouns and politeness of the sentences. With the generated sentence set of size 4,236 in total, we evaluate gender bias in conventional machine translation systems utilizing the proposed measure, which is termed here as translation gender bias index (TGBI). The corpus and the code for evaluation is available on-line.
The paper presents an unsupervised method for quickly extending a Ukrainian lexicon by generating paradigms and morphological feature structures for new Named Entities and neologisms, which are not covered by existing static morphological resources. This approach addresses a practical problem of modelling paradigms for entities created by the dynamic processes in the lexicon: this problem is especially serious for highly-inflected languages in domains with specialised or quickly changing lexicon. The method uses an unannotated Ukrainian corpus and a small fixed set of inflection tables, which can be found in traditional grammar textbooks. The advantage of the proposed approach is that updating the morphological lexicon does not require training or linguistic annotation, allowing fast knowledge-light extension of an existing static lexicon to improve morphological coverage on a specific corpus. The method is implemented in an open-source package on a GitHub repository. It can be applied to other low-resourced inflectional languages which have internet corpora and linguistic descriptions of their inflection system, following the example of inflection tables for Ukrainian. Evaluation results shows consistent improvements in coverage for Ukrainian corpora of different corpus types.
We present our work on the problem of Multiple Admissibility (MA) in language learning. Multiple Admissibility occurs in many languages when more than one grammatical form of a word fits syntactically and semantically in a given context. In second language (L2) education - in particular, in intelligent tutoring systems/computer-aided language learning (ITS/CALL) systems, which generate exercises automatically - this implies that multiple alternative answers are possible. We treat the problem as a grammaticality judgement task. We train a neural network with an objective to label sentences as grammatical or ungrammatical, using a {``}simulated learner corpus{''}: a dataset with correct text, and with artificial errors generated automatically. While MA occurs commonly in many languages, this paper focuses on learning Russian. We present a detailed classification of the types of constructions in Russian, in which MA is possible, and evaluate the model using a test set built from answers provided by the users of a running language learning system.
Text normalisation in Text-to-Speech systems is a process of converting written expressions to their spoken forms. This task is complicated because in many cases the normalised form depends on the context. Furthermore, when we analysed languages like Croatian, Lithuanian, Polish, Russian or Slovak there is additional difficulty related to their inflected nature. In this paper we want to show how to deal with this problem for one of these languages: Polish, without having a large dedicated data set and using solutions prepared for other NLP tasks. We limited our study to only numbers expressions, which are the most common non-standard words to normalise. The proposed solution is a combination of morphological tagger and transducer supported by a dictionary of numbers in their spoken forms. The data set used for evaluation is based on the part of 1-million word subset of the National Corpus of Polish. The accuracy of the described approach is presented with a comparison to a simple baseline and two commercial systems: Google Cloud Text-to-Speech and Amazon Polly.
In this paper, we propose an approach for semi-automatically creating a data-to-text (D2T) corpus for Russian that can be used to learn a D2T natural language generation model. An error analysis of the output of an English-to-Russian neural machine translation system shows that 80{\%} of the automatically translated sentences contain an error and that 53{\%} of all translation errors bear on named entities (NE). We therefore focus on named entities and introduce two post-editing techniques for correcting wrongly translated NEs.
Nowadays it is becoming more important than ever to find new ways of extracting useful information from the evergrowing amount of user-generated data available online. In this paper, we describe the creation of a data set that contains news articles and corresponding comments from Croatian news outlet 24 sata. Our annotation scheme is specifically tailored for the task of detecting stances and sentiment from user comments as well as assessing if commentator claims are verifiable. Through this data, we hope to get a better understanding of the publics viewpoint on various events. In addition, we also explore the potential of applying supervised machine learning models toautomate annotation of more data.
This paper presents the first gold-standard resource for Russian annotated with compositionality information of noun compounds. The compound phrases are collected from the Universal Dependency treebanks according to part of speech patterns, such as ADJ+NOUN or NOUN+NOUN, using the gold-standard annotations. Each compound phrase is annotated by two experts and a moderator according to the following schema: the phrase can be either compositional, non-compositional, or ambiguous (i.e., depending on the context it can be interpreted both as compositional or non-compositional). We conduct an experimental evaluation of models and methods for predicting compositionality of noun compounds in unsupervised and supervised setups. We show that methods from previous work evaluated on the proposed Russian-language resource achieve the performance comparable with results on English corpora.
This paper reports the results of the first experiment dealing with the challenges of building a machine translation system for user-generated content involving a complex South Slavic language. We focus on translation of English IMDb user movie reviews into Serbian, in a low-resource scenario. We explore potentials and limits of (i) phrase-based and neural machine translation systems trained on out-of-domain clean parallel data from news articles (ii) creating additional synthetic in-domain parallel corpus by machine-translating the English IMDb corpus into Serbian. Our main findings are that morphology and syntax are better handled by the neural approach than by the phrase-based approach even in this low-resource mismatched domain scenario, however the situation is different for the lexical aspect, especially for person names. This finding also indicates that in general, machine translation of person names into Slavic languages (especially those which require/allow transcription) should be investigated more systematically.
Using different neural network architectures is widely spread for many different NLP tasks. Unfortunately, most of the research is performed and evaluated only in English language and minor languages are often omitted. We believe using similar architectures for other languages can show interesting results. In this paper, we present our study on methods for improving sentiment classification in Slovak language. We performed several experiments for two different datasets, one containing customer reviews, the other one general Twitter posts. We show comparison of performance of different neural network architectures and also different word representations. We show that another improvement can be achieved by using a model ensemble. We performed experiments utilizing different methods of model ensemble. Our proposed models achieved better results than previous models for both datasets. Our experiments showed also other potential research areas.
The paper presents a generic approach to the supervised sentiment analysis of social media content in Slavic languages. The method proposes translating the documents from the original language to English with Google{'}s Neural Translation Model. The resulted texts are then converted to vectors by averaging the vectorial representation of words derived from a pre-trained Word2Vec English model. Testing the approach with several machine learning methods on Polish, Slovenian and Croatian Twitter datasets returns up to 86{\%} of classification accuracy on the out-of-sample data.
There are publicly available general purpose sentiment lexicons in some high resource languages but very few exist in the low resource languages. This makes it difficult to directly perform sentiment analysis tasks in such languages. The objective of this work is to create a general purpose sentiment lexicon for Igbo language that can determine the sentiment of documents written in Igbo language without having to translate it to English language. The material used was an automatically translated Liu{'}s lexicon and manual addition of Igbo native words. The result of this work is a general purpose lexicon {--} IgboSentilex. The performance was tested on the BBC Igbo news channel. It returned an average polarity agreement of 95{\%} with other general purpose sentiment lexicons.
Currently, there is a lack of computational grammar resources for many under-resourced languages which limits the ability to develop Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools and applications such as Multilingual Document Authoring, Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL) and Low-Coverage Machine Translation (MT) for these languages. In this paper, we present our attempt to formalise the grammar of two such languages: Runyankore and Rukiga. For this formalisation we use the Grammatical Framework (GF) and its Resource Grammar Library (GF-RGL).
This work presents a speech recognition model for Tigrinya language .The Deep Neural Network is used to make the recognition model. The Long Short-Term Memory Network (LSTM), which is a special kind of Recurrent Neural Network composed of Long Short-Term Memory blocks, is the primary layer of our neural network model. The 40-dimensional features are MFCC-LDA-MLLT-fMLLR with CMN were used. The acoustic models are trained on features that are obtained by projecting down to 40 dimensions using linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Moreover, speaker adaptive training (SAT) is done using a single feature-space maximum likelihood linear regression (FMLLR) transform estimated per speaker. We train and compare LSTM and DNN models at various numbers of parameters and configurations. We show that LSTM models converge quickly and give state of the art speech recognition performance for relatively small sized models. Finally, the accuracy of the model is evaluated based on the recognition rate.
In this paper, we presented a WSD system that uses LDA topics for semantic expansion of document words. Our system also uses sense frequency information from SemCor to give higher priority to the senses which are more probable to happen.
We propose a novel Aspect-based Rating Prediction model (AspeRa) that estimates user rating based on review texts for the items. It is based on aspect extraction with neural networks and combines the advantages of deep learning and topic modeling. It is mainly designed for recommendations, but an important secondary goal of AspeRa is to discover coherent aspects of reviews that can be used to explain predictions or for user profiling. We conduct a comprehensive empirical study of AspeRa, showing that it outperforms state-of-the-art models in terms of recommendation quality and produces interpretable aspects. This paper is an abridged version of our work (Nikolenko et al., 2019)
Recognizing the arrow of time in the context of paragraphs in short stories is a challenging task. i.e., given only two paragraphs (excerpted from a random position in a short story), determining which comes first and which comes next is a difficult task even for humans. In this paper, we have collected and curated a novel dataset for tackling this challenging task. We have shown that a pre-trained BERT architecture achieves reasonable accuracy on the task, and outperforms RNN-based architectures.
The significance of computers and handheld devices are not deniable in the modern world of today. Texts are entered to these devices using word processing programs as well as other techniques and word prediction is one of the techniques. Word Prediction is the action of guessing or forecasting what word comes after, based on some current information, and it is the main focus of this study. Even though Amharic is used by a large number of populations, no significant work is done on the topic of word sequence prediction. In this study, Amharic word sequence prediction model is developed with statistical methods using Hidden Markov Model by incorporating detailed Part of speech tag. Evaluation of the model is performed using developed prototype and keystroke savings (KSS) as a metrics. According to our experiment, prediction result using a bi-gram with detailed Part of Speech tag model has higher KSS and it is better compared to tri-gram model and better than those without Part of Speech tag. Therefore, statistical approach with Detailed POS has quite good potential on word sequence prediction for Amharic language. This research deals with designing word sequence prediction model in Amharic language. It is a language that is spoken in eastern Africa. One of the needs for Amharic word sequence prediction for mobile use and other digital devices is in order to facilitate data entry and communication in our language. Word sequence prediction is a challenging task for inflected languages. (Arora, 2007) These kinds of languages are morphologically rich and have enormous word forms. i.e. one word can have different forms. As Amharic language is highly inflected language and morphologically rich it shares this problem. (prediction, 2008) This problem makes word prediction system much more difficult and results poor performance. Due to this reason storing all forms in dictionary won{'}t solve the problem as in English and other less inflected languages. But considering other techniques that could help the predictor to suggest the next word like a POS based prediction should be used. Previous researches used dictionary approach with no consideration of context information. Hence storing all forms of words in dictionary for inflected languages such as Amharic language has been less effective. The main goal of this thesis is to implement Amharic word prediction model that works with better prediction speed and with narrowed search space as much as possible. We introduced two models; tags and words and linear interpolation that use part of speech tag information in addition to word n-grams in order to maximize the likelihood of syntactic appropriateness of the suggestions. We believe the results found reflect this. Amharic word sequence prediction using bi-gram model with higher POS weight and detailed Part of speech tag gave better keystroke savings in all scenarios of our experiment. The study followed Design Science Research Methodology (DSRM). Since DSRM includes approaches, techniques, tools, algorithms and evaluation mechanisms in the process, we followed statistical approach with statistical language modeling and built Amharic prediction model based on information from Part of Speech tagger. The statistics included in the systems varies from single word frequencies to part-of-speech tag n-grams. That means it included the statistics of Word frequencies, Word sequence frequencies, Part-of-speech sequence frequencies and other important information. Later on the system was evaluated using Keystroke Savings. (Lindh, 011). Linux mint was used as the main Operation System during the frame work design. We used corpus of 680,000 tagged words that has 31 tag sets, python programming language and its libraries for both the part of speech tagger and the predictor module. Other Tool that was used is the SRILIM (The SRI language modeling toolkit) in order to generate unigram bigram and trigram count as an input for the language model. SRILIM is toolkit that uses to build and apply statistical language modeling. This thesis presented Amharic word sequence prediction model using the statistical approach. We described a combined statistical and lexical word prediction system for handling inflected languages by making use of POS tags to build the language model. We developed Amharic language models of bigram and trigram for the training purpose. We obtained 29{\%} of KSS using bigram model with detailed part ofspeech tag. Hence, Based on the experiments carried out for this study and the results obtained, the following conclusions were made. We concluded that employing syntactic information in the form of Part-of-Speech (POS) n-grams promises more effective predictions. We also can conclude data quantity, performance of POS tagger and data quality highly affects the keystroke savings. Here in our study the tests were done on a small collection of 100 phrases. According to our evaluation better Keystroke saving (KSS) is achieved when using bi-gram model than the tri-gram models. We believe the results obtained using the experiment of detailed Part of speech tags were effective Since speed and search space are the basic issues in word sequence prediction
In this work, we aim to build a unifying framework for relation extraction (RE), applying this on 3 highly used datasets with the ability to be extendable to new datasets. At the moment, the domain suffers from lack of reproducibility as well as a lack of consensus on generalizable techniques. Our framework will be open-sourced and will aid in performing systematic exploration on the effect of different modeling techniques, pre-processing, training methodologies and evaluation metrics on the 3 datasets to help establish a consensus.
Sexism is very common in social media and makes the boundaries of free speech tighter for female users. Automatically flagging and removing sexist content requires niche identification and description of the categories. In this study, inspired by social science work, we propose three categories of sexism toward women as follows: {``}Indirect sexism{''}, {``}Sexual sexism{''} and {``}Physical sexism{''}. We build classifiers such as Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to automatically detect different types of sexism and address problems of annotation. Even though inherent non-interpretability of CNN is a challenge for users who detect sexism, as the reason classifying a given speech instance with regard to sexism is difficult to glance from a CNN. However, recent research developed interpretable CNN filters for text data. In a CNN, filters followed by different activation patterns along with global max-pooling can help us tease apart the most important ngrams from the rest. In this paper, we interpret a CNN model trained to classify sexism in order to understand different categories of sexism by detecting semantic categories of ngrams and clustering them. Then, these ngrams in each category are used to improve the performance of the classification task. It is a preliminary work using machine learning and natural language techniques to learn the concept of sexism and distinguishes itself by looking at more precise categories of sexism in social media along with an in-depth investigation of CNN{'}s filters.
We present a study in which we train neural models that approximate rules that assess the quality of English sentences. We modeled five rules using deep LSTMs trained over a dataset of sentences whose quality is evaluated under such rules. Preliminary results suggest the neural architecture can model such rules to high accuracy.
In this paper, we describe an attempt towards the development of parallel corpora for English and Ethiopian Languages, such as Amharic, Tigrigna, Afan-Oromo, Wolaytta and Ge{'}ez. The corpora are used for conducting bi-directional SMT experiments. The BLEU scores of the bi-directional SMT systems show a promising result. The morphological richness of the Ethiopian languages has a great impact on the performance of SMT especially when the targets are Ethiopian languages.
This paper describes an automatic discourse relation alignment experiment as an empirical justification of the planned annotation projection approach to enlarge the 3600-word multilingual corpus of TED Multilingual Discourse Bank (TED-MDB). The experiment is carried out on a single language pair (English-Turkish) included in TED-MDB. The paper first describes the creation of a large corpus of English-Turkish bi-sentences, then it presents a sense-based experiment that automatically aligns the relations in the English sentences of TED-MDB with the Turkish sentences. The results are very close to the results obtained from an earlier semi-automatic post-annotation alignment experiment validated by human annotators and are encouraging for future annotation projection tasks.
The paper describes the development a corpus of an English variety, i.e. China English, in or-der to provide a linguistic resource for researchers in the field of China English. The Corpus of China English (CCE) was built with due consideration given to its representativeness and authenticity. It was composed of more than 13,962,102 tokens in 15,333 texts evenly divided between the following four genres: newspapers, magazines, fiction and academic writings. The texts cover a wide range of domains, such as news, financial, politics, environment, social, culture, technology, sports, education, philosophy, literary, etc. It is a helpful resource for research on China English, computational linguistics, natural language processing, corpus linguistics and English language education.
In this paper, we present an effort to generate a joint Urdu, Roman Urdu and English trilingual lexicon using automated methods. We make a case for using statistical machine translation approaches and parallel corpora for dictionary creation. To this purpose, we use word alignment tools on the corpus and evaluate translations using human evaluators. Despite different writing script and considerable noise in the corpus our results show promise with over 85{\%} accuracy of Roman Urdu{--}Urdu and 45{\%} English{--}Urdu pairs.
Prepositional Phrase (PP) attachment is a classical problem in NLP for languages like English, which suffer from structural ambiguity. In this work, we solve this problem with the help of another language free from such ambiguities, using the parse tree of the parallel sentence in the other language, and word alignments. We formulate an optimization framework that encourages agreement between the parse trees for two languages, and solve it using a novel Dual Decomposition (DD) based algorithm. Experiments on the English-Hindi language pair show promising improvements over the baseline.
Social media posts reflect the emotions, intentions and mental state of the users. Twitter users who harass famous female figures may do so with different intentions and intensities. Recent studies have published datasets focusing on different types of online harassment, vulgar language, and emotional intensities. We trained, validate and test our proposed model, attention-based bidirectional neural network, on the three datasets:{''}online harassment{''}, {``}vulgar language{''} and {``}valance{''} and achieved state of the art performance in two of the datasets. We report F1 score for each dataset separately along with the final precision, recall and macro-averaged F1 score. In addition, we identify ten female figures from different professions and racial backgrounds who have experienced harassment on Twitter. We tested the trained models on ten collected corpuses each related to one famous female figure to predict the type of harassing language, the type of vulgar language and the degree of intensity of language occurring on their social platforms. Interestingly, the achieved results show different patterns of linguistic use targeting different racial background and occupations. The contribution of this study is two-fold. From the technical perspective, our proposed methodology is shown to be effective with a good margin in comparison to the previous state-of-the-art results on one of the two available datasets. From the social perspective, we introduce a methodology which can unlock facts about the nature of offensive language targeting women on online social platforms. The collected dataset will be shared publicly for further investigation.
Abstract The analysis of sentiments is imperative to make a decision for individuals, organizations, and governments. Due to the rapid growth of Awngi (Agew) text on the web, there is no available corpus annotated for sentiment analysis. In this paper, we present a SA model for the Awngi language spoken in Ethiopia, by using a supervised machine learning approach. We developed our corpus by collecting around 1500 posts from online sources. This research is begun to build and evaluate the model for opinionated Awngi music reviews. Thus, pre-processing techniques have been employed to clean the data, to convert transliterations to the native Ethiopic script for accessibility and convenience to typing and to change the words to their base form by removing the inflectional morphemes. After pre-processing, the corpus is manually annotated by three the language professional for giving polarity, and rate, their level of confidence in their selection and sentiment intensity scale values. To improve the calculation method of feature selection and weighting and proposed a more suitable SA algorithm for feature extraction named CHI and weight calculation named TF IDF, increasing the proportion and weight of sentiment words in the feature words. We employed Support Vector Machines (SVM), Na{\"\i
We present a research on compositional treatment of questions in neo-davidsonian event semantics style. Our work is based on (Champollion, 2011) where only declarative sentences were considered. Our research is based on complex formal examples, paving the way towards further research in this domain and further testing on real-life corpora.
Unlike comprehension-style questions, clarification questions look for some missing information in a given context. However, without guidance, neural models for question generation, similar to dialog generation models, lead to generic and bland questions that cannot elicit useful information. We argue that controlling the level of specificity of the generated questions can have useful applications and propose a neural clarification question generation model for the same. We first train a classifier that annotates a clarification question with its level of specificity (generic or specific) to the given context. Our results on the Amazon questions dataset demonstrate that training a clarification question generation model on specificity annotated data can generate questions with varied levels of specificity to the given context.
Standard sequential generation methods assume a pre-specified generation order, such as text generation methods which generate words from left to right. In this work, we propose a framework for training models of text generation that operate in non-monotonic orders; the model directly learns good orders, without any additional annotation. Our framework operates by generating a word at an arbitrary position, and then recursively generating words to its left and then words to its right, yielding a binary tree. Learning is framed as imitation learning, including a coaching method which moves from imitating an oracle to reinforcing the policy{'}s own preferences. Experimental results demonstrate that using the proposed method, it is possible to learn policies which generate text without pre-specifying a generation order while achieving competitive performance with conventional left-to-right generation.
Word embeddings are widely used in NLP for a vast range of tasks. It was shown that word embeddings derived from text corpora reflect gender biases in society, causing serious concern. Several recent works tackle this problem, and propose methods for significantly reducing this gender bias in word embeddings, demonstrating convincing results. However, we argue that this removal is superficial. While the bias is indeed substantially reduced according to the provided bias definition, the actual effect is mostly hiding the bias, not removing it. The gender bias information is still reflected in the distances between {``}gender-neutralized{''} words in the debiased embeddings, and can be recovered from them. We present a series of experiments to support this claim, for two debiasing methods. We conclude that existing bias removal techniques are insufficient, and should not be trusted for providing gender-neutral modeling.
Many natural languages assign grammatical gender also to inanimate nouns in the language. In such languages, words that relate to the gender-marked nouns are inflected to agree with the noun{'}s gender. We show that this affects the word representations of inanimate nouns, resulting in nouns with the same gender being closer to each other than nouns with different gender. While {``}embedding debiasing{''} methods fail to remove the effect, we demonstrate that a careful application of methods that neutralize grammatical gender signals from the words{'} context when training word embeddings is effective in removing it. Fixing the grammatical gender bias results in a positive effect on the quality of the resulting word embeddings, both in monolingual and cross lingual settings. We note that successfully removing gender signals, while achievable, is not trivial to do and that a language-specific morphological analyzer, together with careful usage of it, are essential for achieving good results.
The North American Product Classification System (NAPCS) is a comprehensive, hierarchical classification system for products (goods and services) that is consistent across the three North American countries. Beginning in 2017, the Economic Census will use NAPCS to produce economy-wide product tabulations. Respondents are asked to report data from a long, pre-specified list of potential products in a given industry, with some lists containing more than 50 potential products. Businesses have expressed the desire to alternatively supply Universal Product Codes (UPC) to the U. S. Census Bureau. Much work has been done around the categorization of products using product descriptions. No study has applied these efforts for the calculation of official statistics (statistics published by government agencies) using only the text of UPC product descriptions. The question we address in this paper is: Given UPC codes and their associated product descriptions, can we accurately predict NAPCS? We tested the feasibility of businesses submitting a spreadsheet with Universal Product Codes and their associated text descriptions. This novel strategy classified text with very high accuracy rates, all of our algorithms surpassed over 90 percent.
In this paper, we propose a novel online topic tracking framework, named IEDL, for tracking the topic changes related to deep learning techniques on Stack Exchange and automatically interpreting each identified topic. The proposed framework combines the prior topic distributions in a time window during inferring the topics in current time slice, and introduces a new ranking scheme to select most representative phrases and sentences for the inferred topics. Experiments on 7,076 Stack Exchange posts show the effectiveness of IEDL in tracking topic changes.
This paper presents ongoing work on the construction and alignment of predicate entailment graphs in English and German. We extract predicate-argument pairs from large corpora of monolingual English and German news text and construct monolingual paraphrase clusters and entailment graphs. We use an aligned subset of entities to derive the bilingual alignment of entities and relations, and achieve better than baseline results on a translated subset of a predicate entailment data set (Levy and Dagan, 2016) and the German portion of XNLI (Conneau et al., 2018).
We perform the natural language generation (NLG) task by mapping sets of Resource Description Framework (RDF) triples into text. First we investigate the impact of increasing the number of entity types in delexicalisaiton on the generation quality. Second we conduct different experiments to evaluate two widely applied language generation systems, encoder-decoder with attention and the Transformer model on a large benchmark dataset. We evaluate different models on automatic metrics, as well as the training time. To our knowledge, we are the first to apply Transformer model to this task.
We investigate English pronunciation patterns in Singaporean children in relation to their American and British counterparts by conducting archetypal analysis on selected vowel pairs. Given that Singapore adopts British English as the institutional standard, one might expect Singaporean children to follow British pronunciation patterns, but we observe that Singaporean children also present similar patterns to Americans for TRAP-BATH spilt vowels: (1) British and Singaporean children both produce these vowels with a relatively lowered tongue height. (2) These vowels are more fronted for American and Singaporean children (p {\textless} 0.001). In addition, when comparing /{\ae}/ and /ε/ productions, British speakers show the clearest distinction between the two vowels; Singaporean and American speakers exhibit a higher and more fronted tongue position for /{\ae}/ (p {\textless} 0.001), causing /{\ae}/ to be acoustically more similar to /ε/.
In this work, we propose the use of phone-level language models to estimate phonotactic complexity{---}measured in bits per phoneme{---}which makes cross-linguistic comparison straightforward. We compare the entropy across languages using this simple measure, gaining insight on how complex different language{'}s phonotactics are. Finally, we show a very strong negative correlation between phonotactic complexity and the average length of words{---}Spearman rho=-0.744{---}when analysing a collection of 106 languages with 1016 basic concepts each.
This is a humanitarian work {--}a counter-terrorism effort. The presentation describes the experiences of developing a multi-lingua, interactive chatbot trained on the corpus of two Nigerian Languages (Hausa and Fulfude), with simultaneous translation to a third (Kanuri), to stimulate conversations, deliver tailored contents to the users thereby aiding in the detection of the probability and degree of radicalization in young learners through data analysis of the games moves and vocabularies. As chatbots have the ability to simulate a human conversation based on rhetorical behavior, the system is able to learn the need of individual user through constant interaction and deliver tailored contents that promote good behavior in Hausa, Fulfulde and Kanuri languages.
This work presents a set of experiments conducted to predict the gender of Twitter users based on language-independent features extracted from the text of the users{'} tweets. The experiments were performed on a version of TwiSty dataset including tweets written by the users of six different languages: Portuguese, French, Dutch, English, German, and Italian. Logistic regression (LR), and feed-forward neural networks (FFNN) with back-propagation were used to build models in two different settings: Inter-Lingual (IL) and Cross-Lingual (CL). In the IL setting, the training and testing were performed on the same language whereas in the CL, Italian and German datasets were set aside and only used as test sets and the rest were combined to compose training and development sets. In the IL, the highest accuracy score belongs to LR whereas, in the CL, FFNN with three hidden layers yields the highest score. The results show that neural network based models underperform traditional models when the size of the training set is small; however, they beat traditional models by a non-trivial margin, when they are fed with large enough data. Finally, the feature analysis confirms that men and women have different writing styles independent of their language.
Finding that explicitly modeling structures leads to better generalization, we consider the task of predicting Cantonese pronunciations of logographs (Chinese characters) using logographs{'} recursive structures. This task is a suitable case study for two reasons. First, logographs{'} pronunciations depend on structures (i.e. the hierarchies of sub-units in logographs) Second, the quality of logographic structures is consistent since the structures are constructed automatically using a set of rules. Thus, this task is less affected by confounds such as varying quality between annotators. Empirical results show that modeling structures explicitly using treeLSTM outperforms LSTM baseline, reducing prediction error by 6.0{\%} relative.
Unlike major Western languages, most African languages are very low-resourced. Furthermore, the resources that do exist are often scattered and difficult to obtain and discover. As a result, the data and code for existing research has rarely been shared, meaning researchers struggle to reproduce reported results, and almost no publicly available benchmarks or leaderboards for African machine translation models exist. To start to address these problems, we trained neural machine translation models for a subset of Southern African languages on publicly-available datasets. We provide the code for training the models and evaluate the models on a newly released evaluation set, with the aim of starting a leaderboard for Southern African languages and spur future research in the field.
We present initial experiments to evaluate the performance of tasks such as Part of Speech Tagging on data corrupted by Optical Character Recognition (OCR). Our results, based on English and German data, using artificial experiments as well as initial real OCRed data indicate that already a small drop in OCR quality considerably increases the error rates, which would have a significant impact on subsequent processing steps.
Kurdish is a less-resourced language consisting of different dialects written in various scripts. Approximately 30 million people in different countries speak the language. The lack of corpora is one of the main obstacles in Kurdish language processing. In this paper, we present KTC-the Kurdish Textbooks Corpus, which is composed of 31 K-12 textbooks in Sorani dialect. The corpus is normalized and categorized into 12 educational subjects containing 693,800 tokens (110,297 types). Our resource is publicly available for non-commercial use under the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license.
A broad range of information needs can often be stated as a question. Question Answering (QA) systems attempt to provide users concise answer(s) to natural language questions. The existing Amharic QA systems handle fact-based questions that usually take named entities as an answer. To deal with more complex information needs we developed an Amharic non-factoid QA for biography, definition, and description questions. A hybrid approach has been used for the question classification. For document filtering and answer extraction we have used lexical patterns. On the other hand to answer biography questions we have used a summarizer and the generated summary is validated using a text classifier. Our QA system is evaluated and has shown a promising result.
Polysemous Language in Child Directed Speech Learning the meaning of words is one of the fundamental building blocks of verbal communication. Models of child language acquisition have generally made the simplifying assumption that each word appears in child-directed speech with a single meaning. To understand naturalistic word learning during childhood, it is essential to know whether children hear input that is in fact constrained to single meaning per word, or whether the environment naturally contains multiple senses.In this study, we use a topic modeling approach to automatically induce word senses from child-directed speech. Our results confirm the plausibility of our automated analysis approach and reveal an increasing rate of using multiple senses in child-directed speech, starting with corpora from children as early as the first year of life.
We critique recent work on ethics in natural language processing. Those discussions have focused on data collection, experimental design, and interventions in modeling. But we argue that we ought to first understand the frameworks of ethics that are being used to evaluate the fairness and justice of algorithmic systems. Here, we begin that discussion by outlining deontological and consequentialist ethics, and make predictions on the research agenda prioritized by each.
[Multiple-submission] In the midst of a generation widely exposed to and influenced by media entertainment, the NLP research community has shown relatively little attention on the sexist comments in popular TV series. To understand sexism in TV series, we propose a way of collecting distant supervision dataset using Character Persona information with the psychological theories on sexism. We assume that sexist characters from TV shows are more prone to making sexist comments when talking about women, and show that this hypothesis is valid through experiment. Finally, we conduct an interesting analysis on popular TV show characters and successfully identify different shades of sexism that is often overlooked.
People judge pairwise similarity by deciding which aspects of the words{'} meanings are relevant for the comparison of the given pair. However, computational representations of meaning rely on dimensions of the vector representation for similarity comparisons, without considering the specific pairing at hand. Prior work has adapted computational similarity judgments by using the softmax function in order to address this limitation by capturing asymmetry in human judgments. We extend this analysis by showing that a simple modification of cosine similarity offers a better correlation with human judgments over a comprehensive dataset. The modification performs best when the similarity between two words is calculated with reference to other words that are most similar and dissimilar to the pair.
Detecting abusive language is a significant research topic, which has received a lot of attention recently. Our work focused on detecting personal attacks in online conversations. State-of-the-art research on this task has largely used deep learning with word embeddings. We explored the use of sentiment lexicons as well as semantic lexicons towards improving the accuracy of the baseline Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) using regular word embeddings. This is a work in progress, limited by time constraints and appropriate infrastructure. Our preliminary results showed promise for utilizing lexicons, especially semantic lexicons, for the task of detecting abusive language.
This paper presents our experimental work on exploring the potential of neural network models developed for aspect-based sentiment analysis for entity-level adverse drug reaction (ADR) classification. Our goal is to explore how to represent local context around ADR mentions and learn an entity representation, interacting with its context. We conducted extensive experiments on various sources of text-based information, including social media, electronic health records, and abstracts of scientific articles from PubMed. The results show that Interactive Attention Neural Network (IAN) outperformed other models on four corpora in terms of macro F-measure. This work is an abridged version of our recent paper accepted to Programming and Computer Software journal in 2019.
The semantic similarity of words forms the basis of many natural language processing methods. These computational similarity measures are often based on a mathematical comparison of vector representations of word meanings, while human judgments of similarity differ in lacking geometrical properties, e.g., symmetric similarity and triangular similarity. In this study, we propose a novel task design to further explore human behavior by asking whether a pair of words is deemed more similar depending on an immediately preceding judgment. Results from a crowdsourcing experiment show that people consistently judge words as more similar when primed by a judgment that evokes a relevant relationship. Our analysis further shows that word2vec similarity correlated significantly better with the out-of-context judgments, thus confirming the methodological differences in human-computer judgments, and offering a new testbed for probing the differences.
A common challenge in the healthcare industry today is physicians have access to massive amounts of healthcare data but have little time and no appropriate tools. For instance, the risk prediction model generated by logistic regression could predict the probability of diseases occurrence and thus prioritizing patients{'} waiting list for further investigations. However, many medical reports available in current clinical practice system are not yet ready for analysis using either statistics or machine learning as they are in unstructured text format. The complexity of medical information makes the annotation or validation of data very challenging and thus acts as a bottleneck to apply machine learning techniques in medical data. This study is therefore conducted to create such annotations automatically where the computer can read radiological reports for oncologists and mark the staging of lung cancer. This staging information is obtained using the rule-based method implemented using the standards of Tumor Node Metastasis (TNM) staging along with deep learning technology called Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) to extract clinical information from the Computed Tomography (CT) text report. The empirical experiment shows promising results being the accuracy of up to 85{\%}.
Commonsense can be vital in some applications like Natural Language Understanding (NLU), where it is often required to resolve ambiguity arising from implicit knowledge and underspecification. In spite of the remarkable success of neural network approaches on a variety of Natural Language Processing tasks, many of them struggle to react effectively in cases that require commonsense knowledge. In the present research, we take advantage of the availability of the open multilingual knowledge graph ConceptNet, by using it as an additional external resource in Named Entity Recognition (NER). Our proposed architecture involves BiLSTM layers combined with a CRF layer that was augmented with some features such as pre-trained word embedding layers and dropout layers. Moreover, apart from using word representations, we used also character-based representation to capture the morphological and the orthographic information. Our experiments and evaluations showed an improvement in the overall performance with +2.86 in the F1-measure. Commonsense reasonnig has been employed in other studies and NLP tasks but to the best of our knowledge, there is no study relating the integration of a commonsense knowledge base in NER.
The United States Supreme Court plays a key role in defining the legal basis for gender discrimination throughout the country, yet there are few checks on gender bias within the court itself. In conversational turn-taking, interruptions have been documented as a marker of bias between speakers of different genders. The goal of this study is to automatically differentiate between respectful and disrespectful conversational turns taken during official hearings, which could help in detecting bias and finding remediation techniques for discourse in the courtroom. In this paper, I present a corpus of turns annotated by legal professionals, and describe the design of a semi-supervised classifier that will use acoustic and lexical features to analyze turn-taking at scale. On completion of annotations, this classifier will be trained to extract the likelihood that turns are respectful or disrespectful for use in studies of speech trends.
Evaluating open-domain dialogue systems is difficult due to the diversity of possible correct answers. Automatic metrics such as BLEU correlate weakly with human annotations, resulting in a significant bias across different models and datasets. Some researchers resort to human judgment experimentation for assessing response quality, which is expensive, time consuming, and not scalable. Moreover, judges tend to evaluate a small number of dialogues, meaning that minor differences in evaluation configuration may lead to dissimilar results. In this paper, we present interpretable metrics for evaluating topic coherence by making use of distributed sentence representations. Furthermore, we introduce calculable approximations of human judgment based on conversational coherence by adopting state-of-the-art entailment techniques. Results show that our metrics can be used as a surrogate for human judgment, making it easy to evaluate dialogue systems on large-scale datasets and allowing an unbiased estimate for the quality of the responses. This paper has been accepted in NAACL 2019.
Towards procedural fidelity in the processing of African English speech corpora, this work demonstrates how the adaptation of machine-assisted segmentation of phonemes and automatic extraction of acoustic values can significantly speed up the processing of naturalistic data and make the vocalic analysis of the varieties less impressionistic. Research in African English phonology has, till date, been least data-driven {--} much less the use of comparative corpora for cross-varietal assessments. Using over 30 hours of naturalistic data (from 28 speakers in 5 Nigerian cities), the procedures for segmenting audio files into phonemic units via the Munich Automatic Segmentation System (MAUS), and the extraction of their spectral values in Praat are explained. Evidence from the speech corpora supports a more complex vocalic inventory than attested in previous auditory/manual-based accounts {--} thus reinforcing the resourcefulness of the algorithms for the current data and cognate varieties. Keywords: machine algorithms; naturalistic data; African English phonology; vowel segmentation
We describe work in progress for evaluating performance of sequence-to-sequence neural networks on the task of syntax-based reordering for rules applicable to simultaneous machine translation. We train models that attempt to rewrite English sentences using rules that are commonly used by human interpreters. We examine the performance of these models to determine which forms of rewriting are more difficult for them to learn and which architectures are the best at learning them.
In recent years, studies of authorship recognition has aroused great interest in graph-based analysis. Modeling the writing style of each author using a network of co-occurrence words. However, short texts can generate some changes in the topology of network that cause impact on techniques of feature extraction based on graph topology. In this work, we evaluate the robustness of global-strategy and local-strategy based on complex network measurements comparing with graph2vec a graph embedding technique based on skip-gram model. The experiment consists of evaluating how each modification in the length of text affects the accuracy of authorship recognition on both techniques using cross-validation and machine learning techniques.
This work is about the compilation process of parallel documents Spanish-Mixtec. There are not many Spanish-Mixec parallel texts and most of the sources are non-digital books. Due to this, we need to face the errors when digitizing the sources and difficulties in sentence alignment, as well as the fact that does not exist a standard orthography. Our parallel corpus consists of sixty texts coming from books and digital repositories. These documents belong to different domains: history, traditional stories, didactic material, recipes, ethnographical descriptions of each town and instruction manuals for disease prevention. We have classified this material in five major categories: didactic (6 texts), educative (6 texts), interpretative (7 texts), narrative (39 texts), and poetic (2 texts). The final total of tokens is 49,814 Spanish words and 47,774 Mixtec words. The texts belong to the states of Oaxaca (48 texts), Guerrero (9 texts) and Puebla (3 texts). According to this data, we see that the corpus is unbalanced in what refers to the representation of the different territories. While 55{\%} of speakers are in Oaxaca, 80{\%} of texts come from this region. Guerrero has the 30{\%} of speakers and the 15{\%} of texts and Puebla, with the 15{\%} of the speakers has a representation of the 5{\%} in the corpus.
We study emoji usage patterns across two social media platforms, one of them considered a fringe community called Gab, and the other Twitter. We find that Gab tends to comparatively use more emotionally charged emoji, but also seems more apathetic towards the violence during the event, while Twitter takes a more empathetic approach to the event.
While affective outcomes are generally positive for the use of eBooks and computer-based reading tutors in teaching children to read, learning outcomes are often poorer (Korat and Shamir, 2004). We describe the first iteration of Reading Kitty, an iOS application that uses NLP and speech processing to focus children{'}s time on close reading and prosody in oral reading, while maintaining an emphasis on creativity and artifact creation. We also share preliminary results demonstrating that pitch range can be used to automatically predict readers{'} skill level.
In this paper, we propose a white-box attack algorithm called {``}Global Search{''} method and compare it with a simple misspelling noise and a more sophisticated and common white-box attack approach called {``}Greedy Search{''}. The attack methods are evaluated on the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) sentiment classifier trained on the IMDB movie review dataset. The attack success rate is used to evaluate the effectiveness of the attack methods and the perplexity of the sentences is used to measure the degree of distortion of the generated adversarial examples. The experiment results show that the proposed {``}Global Search{''} method generates more powerful adversarial examples with less distortion or less modification to the source text.
We introduce a shift on the DS method over the domain of crime-related news from Peru, attempting to find the culprit, victim and location of a crime description from a RE perspective. Obtained results are highly promising and show that proposed modifications are effective in non-traditional domains.
Exploring social bias in chatbot is an important, yet relatively unexplored problem. In this paper, we propose an approach to understand social bias in chatbots by leveraging stereotype knowledge. It allows interesting comparison of bias between chatbots and humans, and provides intuitive analysis of existing chatbots by borrowing the finer-grain concepts of sexism and racism.
Current approaches to Text Simplification focus on simplifying sentences individually. However, certain simplification transformations span beyond single sentences (e.g. joining and re-ordering sentences). In this paper, we motivate the need for modelling the simplification task at the document level, and assess the performance of sequence-to-sequence neural models in this setup. We analyse parallel original-simplified documents created by professional editors and show that there are frequent rewriting transformations that are not restricted to sentence boundaries. We also propose strategies to automatically evaluate the performance of a simplification model on these cross-sentence transformations. Our experiments show the inability of standard sequence-to-sequence neural models to learn these transformations, and suggest directions towards document-level simplification.
The presence of toxic content has become a major problem for many online communities. Moderators try to limit this problem by implementing more and more refined comment filters, but toxic users are constantly finding new ways to circumvent them. Our hypothesis is that while modifying toxic content and keywords to fool filters can be easy, hiding sentiment is harder. In this paper, we explore various aspects of sentiment detection and their correlation to toxicity, and use our results to implement a toxicity detection tool. We then test how adding the sentiment information helps detect toxicity in three different real-world datasets, and incorporate subversion to these datasets to simulate a user trying to circumvent the system. Our results show sentiment information has a positive impact on toxicity detection.
Interactions among users on social network platforms are usually positive, constructive and insightful. However, sometimes people also get exposed to objectionable content such as hate speech, bullying, and verbal abuse etc. Most social platforms have explicit policy against hate speech because it creates an environment of intimidation and exclusion, and in some cases may promote real-world violence. As users{'} interactions on today{'}s social networks involve multiple modalities, such as texts, images and videos, in this paper we explore the challenge of automatically identifying hate speech with deep multimodal technologies, extending previous research which mostly focuses on the text signal alone. We present a number of fusion approaches to integrate text and photo signals. We show that augmenting text with image embedding information immediately leads to a boost in performance, while applying additional attention fusion methods brings further improvement.
We developed a machine-learning-based method to detect video game players that harass teammates or opponents in chat earlier in the conversation. This real-time technology would allow gaming companies to intervene during games, such as issue warnings or muting or banning a player. In a proof-of-concept experiment on League of Legends data we compute and visualize evaluation metrics for a machine learning classifier as conversations unfold, and observe that the optimal precision and recall of detecting toxic players at each moment in the conversation depends on the confidence threshold of the classifier: the threshold should start low, and increase as the conversation unfolds. How fast this sliding threshold should increase depends on the training set size.
Technologies for abusive language detection are being developed and applied with little consideration of their potential biases. We examine racial bias in five different sets of Twitter data annotated for hate speech and abusive language. We train classifiers on these datasets and compare the predictions of these classifiers on tweets written in African-American English with those written in Standard American English. The results show evidence of systematic racial bias in all datasets, as classifiers trained on them tend to predict that tweets written in African-American English are abusive at substantially higher rates. If these abusive language detection systems are used in the field they will therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on African-American social media users. Consequently, these systems may discriminate against the groups who are often the targets of the abuse we are trying to detect.
Discussion forum participation represents one of the crucial factors for learning and often the only way of supporting social interactions in online settings. However, as much as sharing new ideas or asking thoughtful questions contributes learning, verbally abusive behaviors, such as expressing negative emotions in online discussions, could have disproportionate detrimental effects. To provide means for mitigating the potential negative effects on course participation and learning, we developed an automated classifier for identifying communication that show linguistic patterns associated with hostility in online forums. In so doing, we employ several well-established automated text analysis tools and build on the common practices for handling highly imbalanced datasets and reducing the sensitivity to overfitting. Although still in its infancy, our approach shows promising results (ROC AUC .73) towards establishing a robust detector of abusive behaviors. We further provide an overview of the classification (linguistic and contextual) features most indicative of online aggression.
Hate speech and abusive language spreading on social media need to be detected automatically to avoid conflict between citizen. Moreover, hate speech has a target, category, and level that also needs to be detected to help the authority in prioritizing which hate speech must be addressed immediately. This research discusses multi-label text classification for abusive language and hate speech detection including detecting the target, category, and level of hate speech in Indonesian Twitter using machine learning approach with Support Vector Machine (SVM), Naive Bayes (NB), and Random Forest Decision Tree (RFDT) classifier and Binary Relevance (BR), Label Power-set (LP), and Classifier Chains (CC) as the data transformation method. We used several kinds of feature extractions which are term frequency, orthography, and lexicon features. Our experiment results show that in general RFDT classifier using LP as the transformation method gives the best accuracy with fast computational time.
Recent concerns over abusive behavior on their platforms have pressured social media companies to strengthen their content moderation policies. However, user opinions on these policies have been relatively understudied. In this paper, we present an analysis of user responses to a September 27, 2018 announcement about the quarantine policy on Reddit as a case study of to what extent the discourse on content moderation is polarized by users{'} ideological viewpoint. We introduce a novel partitioning approach for characterizing user polarization based on their distribution of participation across interest subreddits. We then use automated techniques for capturing framing to examine how users with different viewpoints discuss moderation issues, finding that right-leaning users invoked censorship while left-leaning users highlighted inconsistencies on how content policies are applied. Overall, we argue for a more nuanced approach to moderation by highlighting the intersection of behavior and ideology in considering how abusive language is defined and regulated.
The goal of any social media platform is to facilitate healthy and meaningful interactions among its users. But more often than not, it has been found that it becomes an avenue for wanton attacks. We propose an experimental study that has three aims: 1) to provide us with a deeper understanding of current data sets that focus on different types of abusive language, which are sometimes overlapping (racism, sexism, hate speech, offensive language, and personal attacks); 2) to investigate what type of attention mechanism (contextual vs. self-attention) is better for abusive language detection using deep learning architectures; and 3) to investigate whether stacked architectures provide an advantage over simple architectures for this task.
Online abusive content detection is an inherently difficult task. It has received considerable attention from academia, particularly within the computational linguistics community, and performance appears to have improved as the field has matured. However, considerable challenges and unaddressed frontiers remain, spanning technical, social and ethical dimensions. These issues constrain the performance, efficiency and generalizability of abusive content detection systems. In this article we delineate and clarify the main challenges and frontiers in the field, critically evaluate their implications and discuss potential solutions. We also highlight ways in which social scientific insights can advance research. We discuss the lack of support given to researchers working with abusive content and provide guidelines for ethical research.
Over the past years, the amount of online offensive speech has been growing steadily. To successfully cope with it, machine learning are applied. However, ML-based techniques require sufficiently large annotated datasets. In the last years, different datasets were published, mainly for English. In this paper, we present a new dataset for Portuguese, which has not been in focus so far. The dataset is composed of 5,668 tweets. For its annotation, we defined two different schemes used by annotators with different levels of expertise. Firstly, non-experts annotated the tweets with binary labels ({`}hate{'} vs. {`}no-hate{'}). Secondly, expert annotators classified the tweets following a fine-grained hierarchical multiple label scheme with 81 hate speech categories in total. The inter-annotator agreement varied from category to category, which reflects the insight that some types of hate speech are more subtle than others and that their detection depends on personal perception. This hierarchical annotation scheme is the main contribution of the presented work, as it facilitates the identification of different types of hate speech and their intersections. To demonstrate the usefulness of our dataset, we carried a baseline classification experiment with pre-trained word embeddings and LSTM on the binary classified data, with a state-of-the-art outcome.
Social media platforms like Twitter and Instagram face a surge in cyberbullying phenomena against young users and need to develop scalable computational methods to limit the negative consequences of this kind of abuse. Despite the number of approaches recently proposed in the Natural Language Processing (NLP) research area for detecting different forms of abusive language, the issue of identifying cyberbullying phenomena at scale is still an unsolved problem. This is because of the need to couple abusive language detection on textual message with network analysis, so that repeated attacks against the same person can be identified. In this paper, we present a system to monitor cyberbullying phenomena by combining message classification and social network analysis. We evaluate the classification module on a data set built on Instagram messages, and we describe the cyberbullying monitoring user interface.
Hate speech and abusive language have become a common phenomenon on Arabic social media. Automatic hate speech and abusive detection systems can facilitate the prohibition of toxic textual contents. The complexity, informality and ambiguity of the Arabic dialects hindered the provision of the needed resources for Arabic abusive/hate speech detection research. In this paper, we introduce the first publicly-available Levantine Hate Speech and Abusive (L-HSAB) Twitter dataset with the objective to be a benchmark dataset for automatic detection of online Levantine toxic contents. We, further, provide a detailed review of the data collection steps and how we design the annotation guidelines such that a reliable dataset annotation is guaranteed. This has been later emphasized through the comprehensive evaluation of the annotations as the annotation agreement metrics of Cohen{'}s Kappa (k) and Krippendorff{'}s alpha (α) indicated the consistency of the annotations.
In this paper, we describe a workflow for the data-driven acquisition and semantic scaling of a lexicon that covers lexical items from the lower end of the German language register{---}terms typically considered as rough, vulgar or obscene. Since the fine semantic representation of grades of obscenity can only inadequately be captured at the categorical level (e.g., obscene vs. non-obscene, or rough vs. vulgar), our main contribution lies in applying best-worst scaling, a rating methodology that has already been shown to be useful for emotional language, to capture the relative strength of obscenity of lexical items. We describe the empirical foundations for bootstrapping such a low-end lexicon for German by starting from manually supplied lexicographic categorizations of a small seed set of rough and vulgar lexical items and automatically enlarging this set by means of distributional semantics. We then determine the degrees of obscenity for the full set of all acquired lexical items by letting crowdworkers comparatively assess their pejorative grade using best-worst scaling. This semi-automatically enriched lexicon already comprises 3,300 lexical items and incorporates 33,000 vulgarity ratings. Using it as a seed lexicon for fully automatic lexical acquisition, we were able to raise its coverage up to slightly more than 11,000 entries.
We address the task of automatically detecting toxic content in user generated texts. We fo cus on exploring the potential for preemptive moderation, i.e., predicting whether a particular conversation thread will, in the future, incite a toxic comment. Moreover, we perform preliminary investigation of whether a model that jointly considers all comments in a conversation thread outperforms a model that considers only individual comments. Using an existing dataset of conversations among Wikipedia contributors as a starting point, we compile a new large-scale dataset for this task consisting of labeled comments and comments from their conversation threads.
The text we see in social media suffers from lots of undesired characterstics like hatespeech, abusive language, insults etc. The nature of this text is also very different compared to the traditional text we see in news with lots of obfuscated words, intended typos. This poses several robustness challenges to many natural language processing (NLP) techniques developed for traditional text. Many techniques proposed in the recent times such as charecter encoding models, subword models, byte pair encoding to extract subwords can aid in dealing with few of these nuances. In our work, we analyze the effectiveness of each of the above techniques, compare and contrast various word decomposition techniques when used in combination with others. We experiment with recent advances of finetuning pretrained language models, and demonstrate their robustness to domain shift. We also show our approaches achieve state of the art performance on Wikipedia attack, toxicity datasets, and Twitter hatespeech dataset.
Hate speech detectors must be applicable across a multitude of services and platforms, and there is hence a need for detection approaches that do not depend on any information specific to a given platform. For instance, the information stored about the text{'}s author may differ between services, and so using such data would reduce a system{'}s general applicability. The paper thus focuses on using exclusively text-based input in the detection, in an optimised architecture combining Convolutional Neural Networks and Long Short-Term Memory-networks. The hate speech detector merges two strands with character n-grams and word embeddings to produce the final classification, and is shown to outperform comparable previous approaches.
In the era of social media, hate speech, trolling and verbal abuse have become a common issue. We present an approach to automatically classify such statements, using a new deep learning architecture. Our model comprises of a Multi Dimension Capsule Network that generates the representation of sentences which we use for classification. We further provide an analysis of our model{'}s interpretation of such statements. We compare the results of our model with state-of-art classification algorithms and demonstrate our model{'}s ability. It also has the capability to handle comments that are written in both Hindi and English, which are provided in the TRAC dataset. We also compare results on Kaggle{'}s Toxic comment classification dataset.
The paper proposes an investigation on the role of populist themes and rhetoric in an Italian Twitter corpus of hate speech against immigrants. The corpus had been annotated with four new layers of analysis: Nominal Utterances, that can be seen as consistent with populist rhetoric; In-out-group rhetoric, a very common populist strategy to polarize public opinion; Slogan-like nominal utterances, that may convey the call for severe illiberal policies against immigrants; News, to recognize the role of newspapers (headlines or reference to articles) in the Twitter political discourse on immigration featured by hate speech.
The disciplines of Gender Studies and Data Science are incompatible. This is conventional wisdom, supported by how many computational studies simplify gender into an immutable binary categorization that appears crude to the critical social researcher. I argue that the characterization of gender norms is context specific and may prove valuable in constructing useful models. I show how gender can be framed in computational studies as a stylized repetition of acts mediated by a social structure, and not a possessed biological category. By conducting a review of existing work, I show how gender should be explored in multiplicity in computational research through clustering techniques, and layout how this is being achieved in a study in progress on gender hostility on Stack Overflow.
The present paper introduces a theoretical model for explaining aggressive online comments from a sociological perspective. It is innovative as it combines individual, situational, and social-structural determinants of online aggression and tries to theoretically derive their interplay. Moreover, the paper suggests an empirical strategy for testing the model. The main contribution will be to match online commenting data with survey data containing rich background data of non- /aggressive online commentators.
Pictures can enrich storytelling experiences. We propose a framework that can automatically compose a picture book by understanding story text and visualizing it with painting elements, i.e., characters and backgrounds. For story understanding, we extract key information from a story on both sentence level and paragraph level, including characters, scenes and actions. These concepts are organized and visualized in a way that depicts the development of a story. We collect a set of Chinese stories for children and apply our approach to compose pictures for stories. Extensive experiments are conducted towards story event extraction for visualization to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
Visual storytelling is the task of generating stories based on a sequence of images. Inspired by the recent works in neural generation focusing on controlling the form of text, this paper explores the idea of generating these stories in different personas. However, one of the main challenges of performing this task is the lack of a dataset of visual stories in different personas. Having said that, there are independent datasets for both visual storytelling and annotated sentences for various persona. In this paper we describe an approach to overcome this by getting labelled persona data from a different task and leveraging those annotations to perform persona based story generation. We inspect various ways of incorporating personality in both the encoder and the decoder representations to steer the generation in the target direction. To this end, we propose five models which are incremental extensions to the baseline model to perform the task at hand. In our experiments we use five different personas to guide the generation process. We find that the models based on our hypotheses perform better at capturing words while generating stories in the target persona.
We propose a novel take on understanding narratives in social media, focusing on learning {''}functional story schemas{''}, which consist of sets of stereotypical functional structures. We develop an unsupervised pipeline to extract schemas and apply our method to Reddit posts to detect schematic structures that are characteristic of different subreddits. We validate our schemas through human interpretation and evaluate their utility via a text classification task. Our experiments show that extracted schemas capture distinctive structural patterns in different subreddits, improving classification performance of several models by 2.4{\%} on average. We also observe that these schemas serve as lenses that reveal community norms.
Automatically generating globally coherent stories is a challenging problem. Neural text generation models have been shown to perform well at generating fluent sentences from data, but they usually fail to keep track of the overall coherence of the story after a couple of sentences. Existing work that incorporates a text planning module succeeded in generating recipes and dialogues, but appears quite data-demanding. We propose a novel story generation approach that generates globally coherent stories from a fairly small corpus. The model exploits a symbolic text planning module to produce text plans, thus reducing the demand of data; a neural surface realization module then generates fluent text conditioned on the text plan. Human evaluation showed that our model outperforms various baselines by a wide margin and generates stories which are fluent as well as globally coherent.
Neural network based approaches to automated story plot generation attempt to learn how to generate novel plots from a corpus of natural language plot summaries. Prior work has shown that a semantic abstraction of sentences called events improves neural plot generation and and allows one to decompose the problem into: (1) the generation of a sequence of events (event-to-event) and (2) the transformation of these events into natural language sentences (event-to-sentence). However, typical neural language generation approaches to event-to-sentence can ignore the event details and produce grammatically-correct but semantically-unrelated sentences. We present an ensemble-based model that generates natural language guided by events. Our method outperforms the baseline sequence-to-sequence model. Additionally, we provide results for a full end-to-end automated story generation system, demonstrating how our model works with existing systems designed for the event-to-event problem.
Centrality of emotion for the stories told by humans is underpinned by numerous studies in literature and psychology. The research in automatic storytelling has recently turned towards emotional storytelling, in which characters{'} emotions play an important role in the plot development (Theune et al., 2004; y Perez, 2007; Mendez et al., 2016). However, these studies mainly use emotion to generate propositional statements in the form {``}A feels affection towards B{''} or {``}A confronts B{''}. At the same time, emotional behavior does not boil down to such propositional descriptions, as humans display complex and highly variable patterns in communicating their emotions, both verbally and non-verbally. In this paper, we analyze how emotions are expressed non-verbally in a corpus of fan fiction short stories. Our analysis shows that stories written by humans convey character emotions along various non-verbal channels. We find that some non-verbal channels, such as facial expressions and voice characteristics of the characters, are more strongly associated with joy, while gestures and body postures are more likely to occur with trust. Based on our analysis, we argue that automatic storytelling systems should take variability of emotion into account when generating descriptions of characters{'} emotions.
In text generation, generating long stories is still a challenge. Coherence tends to decrease rapidly as the output length increases. Especially for generated stories, coherence of the narrative is an important quality aspect of the output text. In this paper we examine how narrative coherence is attained in the submissions of NaNoGenMo 2018, an online text generation event where participants are challenged to generate a 50,000 word novel. We list the main approaches that were used to generate coherent narratives and link them to scientific literature. Finally, we give recommendations on when to use which approach.
This study explores the relation between lexical concreteness and narrative text quality. We present a methodology to quantitatively measure lexical concreteness of a text. We apply it to a corpus of student stories, scored according to writing evaluation rubrics. Lexical concreteness is weakly-to-moderately related to story quality, depending on story-type. The relation is mostly borne by adjectives and nouns, but also found for adverbs and verbs.
In this work, we deploy a logistic regression classifier to ascertain whether a given document belongs to the fiction or non-fiction genre. For genre identification, previous work had proposed three classes of features, viz., low-level (character-level and token counts), high-level (lexical and syntactic information) and derived features (type-token ratio, average word length or average sentence length). Using the Recursive feature elimination with cross-validation (RFECV) algorithm, we perform feature selection experiments on an exhaustive set of nineteen features (belonging to all the classes mentioned above) extracted from Brown corpus text. As a result, two simple features viz., the ratio of the number of adverbs to adjectives and the number of adjectives to pronouns turn out to be the most significant. Subsequently, our classification experiments aimed towards genre identification of documents from the Brown and Baby BNC corpora demonstrate that the performance of a classifier containing just the two aforementioned features is at par with that of a classifier containing the exhaustive feature set.
Script knowledge consists of detailed information on everyday activities. Such information is often taken for granted in text and needs to be inferred by readers. Therefore, script knowledge is a central component to language comprehension. Previous work on representing scripts is mostly based on extensive manual work or limited to scenarios that can be found with sufficient redundancy in large corpora. We introduce the task of scenario detection, in which we identify references to scripts. In this task, we address a wide range of different scripts (200 scenarios) and we attempt to identify all references to them in a collection of narrative texts. We present a first benchmark data set and a baseline model that tackles scenario detection using techniques from topic segmentation and text classification.
Interesting stories often are built around interesting characters. Finding and detailing what makes an interesting character is a real challenge, but certainly a significant cue is the character personality traits. Our exploratory work tests the adaptability of the current personality traits theories to literal characters, focusing on the analysis of utterances in theatre scripts. And, at the opposite, we try to find significant traits for interesting characters. The preliminary results demonstrate that our approach is reasonable. Using machine learning for gaining insight into the personality traits of fictional characters can make sense.
Pre-scheduled events, such as TV shows and sports games, usually garner considerable attention from the public. Twitter captures large volumes of discussions and messages related to these events, in real-time. Twitter streams related to pre-scheduled events are characterized by the following: (1) spikes in the volume of published tweets reflect the highlights of the event and (2) some of the published tweets make reference to the characters involved in the event, in the context in which they are currently portrayed in a subevent. In this paper, we take advantage of these characteristics to identify the highlights of pre-scheduled events from tweet streams and we demonstrate a method to summarize these highlights. We evaluate our algorithm on tweets collected around 2 episodes of a popular TV show, Game of Thrones, Season 7.
We study the problem of generating interesting endings for stories. Neural generative models have shown promising results for various text generation problems. Sequence to Sequence (Seq2Seq) models are typically trained to generate a single output sequence for a given input sequence. However, in the context of a story, multiple endings are possible. Seq2Seq models tend to ignore the context and generate generic and dull responses. Very few works have studied generating diverse and interesting story endings for the same story context. In this paper, we propose models which generate more diverse and interesting outputs by 1) training models to focus attention on important keyphrases of the story, and 2) promoting generating nongeneric words. We show that the combination of the two leads to more interesting endings.
As the size of investment for movie production grows bigger, the need for predicting a movie{'}s success in early stages has increased. To address this need, various approaches have been proposed, mostly relying on movie reviews, trailer movie clips, and SNS postings. However, all of these are available only after a movie is produced and released. To enable a more earlier prediction of a movie{'}s performance, we propose a deep-learning based approach to predict the success of a movie using only its plot summary text. This paper reports the results evaluating the efficacy of the proposed method and concludes with discussions and future work.
Developers of cross-linguistic semantic annotation schemes face a number of issues not encountered in monolingual annotation. This paper discusses four such issues, related to the establishment of annotation labels, and the treatment of languages with more fine-grained, more coarse-grained, and cross-cutting categories. We propose that a lattice-like architecture of the annotation categories can adequately handle all four issues, and at the same time remain both intuitive for annotators and faithful to typological insights. This position is supported by a brief annotation experiment.
Meaning banking{---}creating a semantically annotated corpus for the purpose of semantic parsing or generation{---}is a challenging task. It is quite simple to come up with a complex meaning representation, but it is hard to design a simple meaning representation that captures many nuances of meaning. This paper lists some lessons learned in nearly ten years of meaning annotation during the development of the Groningen Meaning Bank (Bos et al., 2017) and the Parallel Meaning Bank (Abzianidze et al., 2017). The paper{'}s format is rather unconventional: there is no explicit related work, no methodology section, no results, and no discussion (and the current snippet is not an abstract but actually an introductory preface). Instead, its structure is inspired by work of Traum (2000) and Bender (2013). The list starts with a brief overview of the existing meaning banks (Section 1) and the rest of the items are roughly divided into three groups: corpus collection (Section 2 and 3, annotation methods (Section 4{--}11), and design of meaning representations (Section 12{--}30). We hope this overview will give inspiration and guidance in creating improved meaning banks in the future
In this paper, we propose an extension to Abstract Meaning Representations (AMRs) to encode scope information of quantifiers and negation, in a way that overcomes the semantic gaps of the schema while maintaining its cognitive simplicity. Specifically, we address three phenomena not previously part of the AMR specification: quantification, negation (generally), and modality. The resulting representation, which we call {``}Uniform Meaning Representation{''} (UMR), adopts the predicative core of AMR and embeds it under a {``}scope{''} graph when appropriate. UMR representations differ from other treatments of quantification and modal scope phenomena in two ways: (a) they are more transparent; and (b) they specify default scope when possible.{`}
The parsing accuracy varies a great deal for different meaning representations. In this paper, we compare the parsing performances between Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) and Minimal Recursion Semantics (MRS), and provide an in-depth analysis of what factors contributed to the discrepancy in their parsing accuracy. By crystalizing the trade-off between representation expressiveness and ease of automatic parsing, we hope our results can help inform the design of the next-generation meaning representations.
Three broad approaches have been attempted to combine distributional and structural/symbolic aspects to construct meaning representations: a) injecting linguistic features into distributional representations, b) injecting distributional features into symbolic representations or c) combining structural and distributional features in the final representation. This work focuses on an example of the third and less studied approach: it extends the Graphical Knowledge Representation (GKR) to include distributional features and proposes a division of semantic labour between the distributional and structural/symbolic features. We propose two extensions of GKR that clearly show this division and empirically test one of the proposals on an NLI dataset with hard compositional pairs.
Abstract Unscoped episodic logical form (ULF) is a semantic representation capturing the predicate-argument structure of English within the episodic logic formalism in relation to the syntactic structure, while leaving scope, word sense, and anaphora unresolved. We describe how ULF can be used to generate natural language inferences that are grounded in the semantic and syntactic structure through a small set of rules defined over interpretable predicates and transformations on ULFs. The semantic restrictions placed by ULF semantic types enables us to ensure that the inferred structures are semantically coherent while the nearness to syntax enables accurate mapping to English. We demonstrate these inferences on four classes of conversationally-oriented inferences in a mixed genre dataset with 68.5{\%} precision from human judgments.
The view that the representation of information structure (IS) should be a part of (any type of) representation of meaning is based on the fact that IS is a semantically relevant phenomenon. In the contribution, three arguments supporting this view are briefly summarized, namely, the relation of IS to the interpretation of negation and presupposition, the relevance of IS to the understanding of discourse connectivity and for the establishment and interpretation of coreference relations. Afterwards, possible integration of the description of the main ingredient of IS into a meaning representation is illustrated.
It is known that discourse connectives are the most salient indicators of discourse relations. State-of-the-art parsers being developed to predict explicit discourse connectives exploit annotated discourse corpora but a lexicon of discourse connectives is also needed to enable further research in discourse structure and support the development of language technologies that use these structures for text understanding. This paper presents a lexicon of Turkish discourse connectives built by automatic means. The lexicon has the format of the German connective lexicon, DiMLex, where for each discourse connective, information about the connective{`}s orthographic variants, syntactic category and senses are provided along with sample relations. In this paper, we describe the data sources we used and the development steps of the lexicon.
This paper presents a new task-oriented meaning representation called meta-semantics, that is designed to detect patients with early symptoms of Alzheimer{'}s disease by analyzing their language beyond a syntactic or semantic level. Meta-semantic representation consists of three parts, entities, predicate argument structures, and discourse attributes, that derive rich knowledge graphs. For this study, 50 controls and 50 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are selected, and meta-semantic representation is annotated on their speeches transcribed in text. Inter-annotator agreement scores of 88{\%}, 82{\%}, and 89{\%} are achieved for the three types of annotation, respectively. Five analyses are made using this annotation, depicting clear distinctions between the control and MCI groups. Finally, a neural model is trained on features extracted from those analyses to classify MCI patients from normal controls, showing a high accuracy of 82{\%} that is very promising.
Ellipsis is very common in language. It{'}s necessary for natural language processing to restore the elided elements in a sentence. However, there{'}s only a few corpora annotating the ellipsis, which draws back the automatic detection and recovery of the ellipsis. This paper introduces the annotation of ellipsis in Chinese sentences, using a novel graph-based representation Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR), which has a good mechanism to restore the elided elements manually. We annotate 5,000 sentences selected from Chinese TreeBank (CTB). We find that 54.98{\%} of sentences have ellipses. 92{\%} of the ellipses are restored by copying the antecedents{'} concepts. and 12.9{\%} of them are the new added concepts. In addition, we find that the elided element is a word or phrase in most cases, but sometimes only the head of a phrase or parts of a phrase, which is rather hard for the automatic recovery of ellipsis.
This paper proposes a novel representation of event structure by separating verbal semantics and the meaning of argument structure constructions that verbs occur in. Our model demonstrates how the two meaning representations interact. Our model thus effectively deals with various verb construals in different argument structure constructions, unlike purely verb-based approaches. However, unlike many constructionally-based approaches, we also provide a richer representation of the event structure evoked by the verb meaning.
In this paper, we propose a new type of semantic representation of Construction Grammar that combines constructions with the vector representations used in Distributional Semantics. We introduce a new framework, Distributional Construction Grammar, where grammar and meaning are systematically modeled from language use, and finally, we discuss the kind of contributions that distributional models can provide to CxG representation from a linguistic and cognitive perspective.
Humans have the unique ability to infer information about participants in a scene, even if they are not mentioned in a text about that scene. Computer systems cannot do so without explicit information about those participants. This paper addresses the linguistic phenomenon of null-instantiated frame elements, i.e., implicit semantic roles, and their representation in FrameNet (FN). It motivates FN{'}s annotation practice, and illustrates three types of null-instantiated arguments that FrameNet tracks, noting that other lexical resources do not record such semantic-pragmatic information, despite its need in natural language understanding (NLU), and the elaborate efforts to create new datasets. It challenges the community to appeal to FN data to develop more sophisticated techniques for recognizing implicit semantic roles, and creating needed datasets. Although the annotation of null-instantiated roles was lexicographically motivated, FN provides useful information for text processing, and therefore must be considered in the design of any meaning representation for natural language understanding.
This paper concerns the application of Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) to Korean. In this regard, it focuses on the copula construction and its negation and the case-stacking phenomenon thereof. To illustrate this clearly, we reviewed the :domain annotation scheme from various perspectives. In this process, the existing annotation guidelines were improved to devise annotation schemes for each issue under the principle of pursuing consistency and efficiency of annotation without distorting the characteristics of Korean.
This paper proposes using a Bidirectional LSTM-CRF model in order to identify the tense and aspect of verbs. The information that this classifier outputs can be useful for ordering events and can provide a pre-processing step to improve efficiency of annotating this type of information. This neural network architecture has been successfully employed for other sequential labeling tasks, and we show that it significantly outperforms the rule-based tool TMV-annotator on the Propbank I dataset.
Research on adpositions and possessives in multiple languages has led to a small inventory of general-purpose meaning classes that disambiguate tokens. Importantly, that work has argued for a principled separation of the semantic role in a scene from the function coded by morphosyntax. Here, we ask whether this approach can be generalized beyond adpositions and possessives to cover all scene participants{---}including subjects and objects{---}directly, without reference to a frame lexicon. We present new guidelines for English and the results of an interannotator agreement study.
This paper presents a case study on meaning representation for Vietnamese. Having introduced several existing semantic representation schemes for different languages, we select as basis for our work on Vietnamese AMR (Abstract Meaning Representation). From it, we define a meaning representation label set by adapting the English schema and taking into account the specific characteristics of Vietnamese.
This paper announces the release of a new version of the English lexical resource VerbNet with substantially revised semantic representations designed to facilitate computer planning and reasoning based on human language. We use the transfer of possession and transfer of information event representations to illustrate both the general framework of the representations and the types of nuances the new representations can capture. These representations use a Generative Lexicon-inspired subevent structure to track attributes of event participants across time, highlighting oppositions and temporal and causal relations among the subevents.
We propose a coreference annotation scheme as a layer on top of the Universal Conceptual Cognitive Annotation foundational layer, treating units in predicate-argument structure as a basis for entity and event mentions. We argue that this allows coreference annotators to sidestep some of the challenges faced in other schemes, which do not enforce consistency with predicate-argument structure and vary widely in what kinds of mentions they annotate and how. The proposed approach is examined with a pilot annotation study and compared with annotations from other schemes.
Natural language understanding at the semantic level and independent of language variations is of great practical value. Existing approaches such as semantic role labeling (SRL) and abstract meaning representation (AMR) still have features related to the peculiarities of the particular language. In this work we describe various challenges and possible solutions in designing a semantic representation that is universal across a variety of languages.
This paper presents an annotation scheme for modality that employs a dependency structure. Events and sources (here, conceivers) are represented as nodes and epistemic strength relations characterize the edges. The epistemic strength values are largely based on Saur{\'\i} and Pustejovsky{'}s (2009) FactBank, while the dependency structure mirrors Zhang and Xue{'}s (2018b) approach to temporal relations. Six documents containing 377 events have been annotated by two expert annotators with high levels of agreement.
We detail refinements made to Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) that make the representation more suitable for supporting a situated dialogue system, where a human remotely controls a robot for purposes of search and rescue and reconnaissance. We propose 36 augmented AMRs that capture speech acts, tense and aspect, and spatial information. This linguistic information is vital for representing important distinctions, for example whether the robot has moved, is moving, or will move. We evaluate two existing AMR parsers for their performance on dialogue data. We also outline a model for graph-to-graph conversion, in which output from AMR parsers is converted into our refined AMRs. The design scheme presented here, though task-specific, is extendable for broad coverage of speech acts using AMR in future task-independent work.
Claims database and electronic health records database do not usually capture kinship or family relationship information, which is imperative for genetic research. We identify online obituaries as a new data source and propose a special named entity recognition and relation extraction solution to extract names and kinships from online obituaries. Built on 1,809 annotated obituaries and a novel tagging scheme, our joint neural model achieved macro-averaged precision, recall and F measure of 72.69{\%}, 78.54{\%} and 74.93{\%}, and micro-averaged precision, recall and F measure of 95.74{\%}, 98.25{\%} and 96.98{\%} using 57 kinships with 10 or more examples in a 10-fold cross-validation experiment. The model performance improved dramatically when trained with 34 kinships with 50 or more examples. Leveraging additional information such as age, death date, birth date and residence mentioned by obituaries, we foresee a promising future of supplementing EHR databases with comprehensive and accurate kinship information for genetic research.
In the medical domain, user-generated social media text is increasingly used as a valuable complementary knowledge source to scientific medical literature. The extraction of this knowledge is complicated by colloquial language use and misspellings. Yet, lexical normalization of such data has not been addressed properly. This paper presents an unsupervised, data-driven spelling correction module for medical social media. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art spelling correction and can detect mistakes with an F0.5 of 0.888. Additionally, we present a novel corpus for spelling mistake detection and correction on a medical patient forum.
The medical concept normalisation task aims to map textual descriptions to standard terminologies such as SNOMED-CT or MedDRA. Existing publicly available datasets annotated using different terminologies cannot be simply merged and utilised, and therefore become less valuable when developing machine learning-based concept normalisation systems. To address that, we designed a data harmonisation pipeline and engineered a corpus of 27,979 textual descriptions simultaneously mapped to both MedDRA and SNOMED-CT, sourced from five publicly available datasets across biomedical and social media domains. The pipeline can be used in the future to integrate new datasets into the corpus and also could be applied in relevant data curation tasks. We also described a method to merge different terminologies into a single concept graph preserving their relations and demonstrated that representation learning approach based on random walks on a graph can efficiently encode both hierarchical and equivalent relations and capture semantic similarities not only between concepts inside a given terminology but also between concepts from different terminologies. We believe that making a corpus and embeddings for cross-terminology medical concept normalisation available to the research community would contribute to a better understanding of the task.
Depression and anxiety are the two most prevalent mental health disorders worldwide, impacting the lives of millions of people each year. In this work, we develop and evaluate a multilabel, multidimensional deep neural network designed to predict PHQ-4 scores based on individuals written text. Our system outperforms random baseline metrics and provides a novel approach to how we can predict psychometric scores from written text. Additionally, we explore how this architecture can be applied to analyse social media data.
We study how language on social media is linked to mortal diseases such as atherosclerotic heart disease (AHD), diabetes and various types of cancer. Our proposed model leverages state-of-the-art sentence embeddings, followed by a regression model and clustering, without the need of additional labelled data. It allows to predict community-level medical outcomes from language, and thereby potentially translate these to the individual level. The method is applicable to a wide range of target variables and allows us to discover known and potentially novel correlations of medical outcomes with life-style aspects and other socioeconomic risk factors.
The increase in the prevalence of mental health problems has coincided with a growing popularity of health related social networking sites. Regardless of their therapeutic potential, on-line support groups (OSGs) can also have negative effects on patients. In this work we propose a novel methodology to automatically verify the presence of therapeutic factors in social networking websites by using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques. The methodology is evaluated on on-line asynchronous multi-party conversations collected from an OSG and Twitter. The results of the analysis indicate that therapeutic factors occur more frequently in OSG conversations than in Twitter conversations. Moreover, the analysis of OSG conversations reveals that the users of that platform are supportive, and interactions are likely to lead to the improvement of their emotional state. We believe that our method provides a stepping stone towards automatic analysis of emotional states of users of online platforms. Possible applications of the method include provision of guidelines that highlight potential implications of using such platforms on users{'} mental health, and/or support in the analysis of their impact on specific individuals.
Over time the use of social networks is becoming very popular platforms for sharing health related information. Social Media Mining for Health Applications (SMM4H) provides tasks such as those described in this document to help manage information in the health domain. This document shows the first participation of the SINAI group. We study approaches based on machine learning and deep learning to extract adverse drug reaction mentions from Twitter. The results obtained in the tasks are encouraging, we are close to the average of all participants and even above in some cases.
CLaC labs participated in Task 1 and 4 of SMM4H 2019. We pursed two main objectives in our submission. First we tried to use some textual features in a deep net framework, and second, the potential use of more than one word embedding was tested. The results seem positively affected by the proposed architectures.
Abstract Grammatical Framework (GF) was born at Xerox Research Centre Europe in 1998. Its purpose was to provide a declarative grammar formalism for interlingual translation systems. The core of GF is Constructive Type Theory (CTT), also known as Logical Framework, which is used for building interlingual representations. On top of these representations, GF provides a functional programming language for deﬁning reversible mappings from interlinguas to concrete languages, equivalent to Parallel Multiple Context-Free Grammars (PMCFG). Open-source since 1999, GF has a world-wide community that has built comprehensive grammars for over 40 languages. GF is also used in several companies to build applications for translation, natural language generation, semantic analysis, chatbots, and dialogue systems. The focus has been on Controlled Natural Languages (CNL), but recent research has also combined GF with statistical and machine learning techniques, such as neural dependency parsing. In this way, GF can scale up to robust and wide-coverage language processing, without sacriﬁcing explainability. The tutorial is meant for an audience that has some experience with formal language theory and its use in practical implementations. However, it is self-contained and does not assume speciﬁc knowledge such as CTT or PMCFG. The structure is the following: 1. Hands-on introduction (45 min). Interactive coding in the GF Cloud to get an idea of how GF works. 2. Theoretical background (45 min). GF as a formalism and programming language, with references to its main inspirations (constructive type theory, Montague grammar, categorial grammars, XFST) 3. The GF Ecosystem (30 min). Software tools, on-going academic research, commercial applications, and open-source community activities. 
In this talk I consider how both the latent variable approach and mildly context-sensitive grammars can be joined and applied to discontinuous treebanks: 1. A large class of latent variable grammars can be captured as a probabilistic regular tree grammar combined with an algebra. I show how the training methodology of latent variable PCFG can be generalized for this class. 2. I recall two mildly context-sensitive grammar formalisms: linear context-free rewriting systems (LCFRS, Vijay-Shanker, Weir, and Joshi 1987) and hybrid grammars (Nederhof and Vogler 2014; Gebhardt, Nederhof, and Vogler 2017). In particular, I consider the induction of hybrid grammars, which can be parametrized such that the polynomial complexity of parsing is of bounded degree. This way also hybrid grammars that are structurally equivalent to ﬁnite state automata can be obtained. 3. I analyse different trends when training latent variable LCFRS and hybrid grammars on different discontinuous treebanks and applying them for parsing. 4 Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Finite-State Methods and Natural Language Processing, pages 4–6 Dresden, Germany, September 23-25, 2019. c 2019 Association for Computational Linguistics 
We propose a formal model for translating unranked syntactic trees, such as dependency trees, into semantic graphs. These tree-to-graph transducers can serve as a formal basis of transition systems for semantic parsing which recently have been shown to perform very well, yet hitherto lack formalization. Our model features {``}extended{''} rules and an arc-factored normal form, comes with an efficient translation algorithm, and can be equipped with weights in a straightforward manner.
In finite-state language processing pipelines, a lexicon is often a key component. It needs to be comprehensive to ensure accuracy, reducing out-of-vocabulary misses. However, in memory-constrained environments (e.g., mobile phones), the size of the component automata must be kept small. Indeed, a delicate balance between comprehensiveness, speed, and memory must be struck to conform to device requirements while providing a good user experience.In this paper, we describe a compression scheme for lexicons when represented as finite-state transducers. We efficiently encode the graph of the transducer while storing transition labels separately. The graph encoding scheme is based on the LOUDS (Level Order Unary Degree Sequence) tree representation, which has constant time tree traversal for queries while being information-theoretically optimal in space. We find that our encoding is near the theoretical lower bound for such graphs and substantially outperforms more traditional representations in space while remaining competitive in latency benchmarks.
Tests added to Kleene algebra (by Kozen and others) are considered within Monadic Second Order logic over strings, where they are likened to statives in natural language. Reducts are formed over tests and non-tests alike, specifying what is observable. Notions of temporal granularity are based on observable change, under the assumption that a finite set bounds what is observable (with the possibility of stretching such bounds by moving to a larger finite set). String projections at different granularities are conjoined by superpositions that provide another variant of concatenation for Booleans.
The research on machine learning of morphology often involves formulating morphological descriptions directly on surface forms of words. As the established two-level morphology paradigm requires the knowledge of the underlying structure, it is not widely used in such settings. In this paper, we propose a formalism describing structural relationships between words based on theories of morphology that reject the notions of internal word structure and morpheme. The formalism covers a wide variety of morphological phenomena (including non-concatenative ones like stem vowel alternation) without the need of workarounds and extensions. Furthermore, we show that morphological rules formulated in such way can be easily translated to FSTs, which enables us to derive performant approaches to morphological analysis, generation and automatic rule discovery.
We develop a general framework for weighted parsing which is built on top of grammar-based language models and employs flexible weight algebras. It generalizes previous work in that area (semiring parsing, weighted deductive parsing) and also covers applications outside the classical scope of parsing, e.g., algebraic dynamic programming. We show an algorithm which terminates and is correct for a large class of weighted grammar-based language models.
We show that regular transductions for which the input part is generated by some multiple context-free grammar can be simulated by synchronous multiple context-free grammars. We prove that synchronous multiple context-free grammars are strictly more powerful than this combination of regular transductions and multiple context-free grammars.
We present a broad coverage model of Turkish morphology and an open-source morphological analyzer that implements it. The model captures intricacies of Turkish morphology-syntax interface, thus could be used as a baseline that guides language model development. It introduces a novel fine part-of-speech tagset, a fine-grained affix inventory and represents morphotactics without zero-derivations. The morphological analyzer is freely available. It consists of modular reusable components of human-annotated gold standard lexicons, implements Turkish morphotactics as finite-state transducers using OpenFst and morphophonemic processes as Thrax grammars.
This paper describes a new and larger coverage Finite-State Morphological Analyser (FSM) and Generator for the Dravidian language Tamil. The FSM has been developed in the context of computational grammar engineering, adhering to the standards of the ParGram effort. Tamil is a morphologically rich language and the interaction between linguistic analysis and formal implementation is complex, resulting in a challenging task. In order to allow the development of the FSM to focus more on the linguistic analysis and less on the formal details, we have developed a system of meta-morph(ology) rules along with a script which translates these rules into FSM processable representations. The introduction of meta-morph rules makes it possible for computationally naive linguists to interact with the system and to expand it in future work. We found that the meta-morph rules help to express linguistic generalisations and reduce the manual effort of writing lexical classes for morphological analysis. Our Tamil FSM currently handles mainly the inflectional morphology of 3,300 verb roots and their 260 forms. Further, it also has a lexicon of approximately 100,000 nouns along with a guesser to handle out-of-vocabulary items. Although the Tamil FSM was primarily developed to be part of a computational grammar, it can also be used as a web or stand-alone application for other NLP tasks, as per general ParGram practice.
Weighted finite automata (WFA) are often used to represent probabilistic models, such as n-gram language models, since they are efficient for recognition tasks in time and space. The probabilistic source to be represented as a WFA, however, may come in many forms. Given a generic probabilistic model over sequences, we propose an algorithm to approximate it as a weighted finite automaton such that the Kullback-Leibler divergence between the source model and the WFA target model is minimized. The proposed algorithm involves a counting step and a difference of convex optimization, both of which can be performed efficiently. We demonstrate the usefulness of our approach on some tasks including distilling n-gram models from neural models.
Modeling sequence data using probabilistic finite state machines (PFSMs) is a technique that analyzes the underlying dynamics in sequences of symbols. Hidden semi-Markov models (HSMMs) and hierarchical hidden Markov models (HHMMs) are PFSMs that have been successfully applied to a wide variety of applications by extending HMMs to make the extracted patterns easier to interpret. However, these models are independently developed with their own training algorithm, so that we cannot combine multiple kinds of structures to build a PFSM for a specific application. In this paper, we prove that silent hidden Markov models (silent HMMs) are flexible models that have more expressive power than HSMMs and HHMMs. Silent HMMs are HMMs that contain silent states, which do not emit any observations. We show that we can obtain silent HMM equivalent to given HSMMs and HHMMs. We believe that these results form a firm foundation to use silent HMMs as a unified representation for PFSM modeling.
The use of the Latin script for text entry of South Asian languages is common, even though there is no standard orthography for these languages in the script. We explore several compact finite-state architectures that permit variable spellings of words during mobile text entry. We find that approaches making use of transliteration transducers provide large accuracy improvements over baselines, but that simpler approaches involving a compact representation of many attested alternatives yields much of the accuracy gain. This is particularly important when operating under constraints on model size (e.g., on inexpensive mobile devices with limited storage and memory for keyboard models), and on speed of inference, since people typing on mobile keyboards expect no perceptual delay in keyboard responsiveness.
Transition-based parsing of natural language uses transition systems to build directed annotation graphs (digraphs) for sentences. In this paper, we define, for an arbitrary ordered digraph, a unique decomposition and a corresponding linear encoding that are associated bijectively with each other via a new transition system. These results give us an efficient and succinct representation for digraphs and sets of digraphs. Based on the system and our analysis of its syntactic properties, we give structural bounds under which the set of encoded digraphs is restricted and becomes a context-free or a regular string language. The context-free restriction is essentially a superset of the encodings used previously to characterize properties of noncrossing digraphs and to solve maximal subgraphs problems. The regular restriction with a tight bound is shown to capture the Universal Dependencies v2.4 treebanks in linguistics.
A fundamental challenge when training counselors is presenting novices with the opportunity to practice counseling distressed individuals without exacerbating a situation. Rather than replacing human empathy with an automated counselor, we propose simulating an individual in crisis so that human counselors in training can practice crisis counseling in a low-risk environment. Towards this end, we collect a dataset of suicide prevention counselor role-play transcripts and make initial steps towards constructing a CRISISbot for humans to counsel while in training. In this data-constrained setting, we evaluate the potential for message retrieval to construct a coherent chat agent in light of recent advances with text embedding methods. Our results show that embeddings can considerably improve retrieval approaches to make them competitive with generative models. By coherently retrieving messages, we can help counselors practice chatting in a low-risk environment.
While conversation in therapy sessions can vary widely in both topic and style, an understanding of the underlying techniques used by therapists can provide valuable insights into how therapists best help clients of different types. Dialogue act classification aims to identify the conversational {``}action{''} each speaker takes at each utterance, such as sympathizing, problem-solving or assumption checking. We propose to apply dialogue act classification to therapy transcripts, using a therapy-specific labeling scheme, in order to gain a high-level understanding of the flow of conversation in therapy sessions. We present a novel annotation scheme that spans multiple psychotherapeutic approaches, apply it to a large and diverse corpus of psychotherapy transcripts, and present and discuss classification results obtained using both SVM and neural network-based models. The results indicate that identifying the structure and flow of therapeutic actions is an obtainable goal, opening up the opportunity in the future to provide therapeutic recommendations tailored to specific client situations.
Spoken language ability is highly heterogeneous in Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), which complicates efforts to identify linguistic markers for use in diagnostic classification, clinical characterization, and for research and clinical outcome measurement. Machine learning techniques that harness the power of multivariate statistics and non-linear data analysis hold promise for modeling this heterogeneity, but many models require enormous datasets, which are unavailable for most psychiatric conditions (including ASD). In lieu of such datasets, good models can still be built by leveraging domain knowledge. In this study, we compare two machine learning approaches: the first approach incorporates prior knowledge about language variation across middle childhood, adolescence, and adulthood to classify 6-minute naturalistic conversation samples from 140 age- and IQ-matched participants (81 with ASD), while the other approach treats all ages the same. We found that individual age-informed models were significantly more accurate than a single model tasked with building a common algorithm across age groups. Furthermore, predictive linguistic features differed significantly by age group, confirming the importance of considering age-related changes in language use when classifying ASD. Our results suggest that limitations imposed by heterogeneity inherent to ASD and from developmental change with age can be (at least partially) overcome using domain knowledge, such as understanding spoken language development from childhood through adulthood.
Increased access to large datasets has driven progress in NLP. However, most computational studies of clinically-validated, patient-generated speech and language involve very few datapoints, as such data are difficult (and expensive) to collect. In this position paper, we argue that we must find ways to promote data sharing across research groups, in order to build datasets of a more appropriate size for NLP and machine learning analysis. We review the benefits and challenges of sharing clinical language data, and suggest several concrete actions by both clinical and NLP researchers to encourage multi-site and multi-disciplinary data sharing. We also propose the creation of a collaborative data sharing platform, to allow NLP researchers to take a more active responsibility for data transcription, annotation, and curation.
Depression is characterized by a self-focused negative attentional bias, which is often reflected in everyday language use. In a prospective writing study, we explored whether the association between depressive symptoms and negative, self-focused language varies across social contexts. College students (N = 243) wrote about a recent interaction with a person they care deeply about. Depression symptoms positively correlated with negative emotion words and first-person singular pronouns (or negative self-focus) when writing about a recent interaction with romantic partners or, to a lesser extent, friends, but not family members. The pattern of results was more pronounced when participants perceived greater self-other overlap (i.e., interpersonal closeness) with their romantic partner. Findings regarding how the linguistic profile of depression differs by type of relationship may inform more effective methods of clinical diagnosis and treatment.
We explore linguistic indicators of schizophrenia in Reddit discussion forums. Schizophrenia (SZ) is a chronic mental disorder that affects a person{'}s thoughts and behaviors. Identifying and detecting signs of SZ is difficult given that SZ is relatively uncommon, affecting approximately 1{\%} of the US population, and people suffering with SZ often believe that they do not have the disorder. Linguistic abnormalities are a hallmark of SZ and many of the illness{'}s symptoms are manifested through language. In this paper we leverage the vast amount of data available from social media and use statistical and machine learning approaches to study linguistic characteristics of SZ. We collected and analyzed a large corpus of Reddit posts from users claiming to have received a formal diagnosis of SZ and identified several linguistic features that differentiated these users from a control (CTL) group. We compared these results to other findings on social media linguistic analysis and SZ. We also developed a machine learning classifier to automatically identify self-identified users with SZ on Reddit.
Natural language processing tools are used to automatically detect disturbances in transcribed speech of schizophrenia inpatients who speak Hebrew. We measure topic mutation over time and show that controls maintain more cohesive speech than inpatients. We also examine differences in how inpatients and controls use adjectives and adverbs to describe content words and show that the ones used by controls are more common than the those of inpatients. We provide experimental results and show their potential for automatically detecting schizophrenia in patients by means only of their speech patterns.
Computational linguistics holds promise for improving scientific integrity in clinical psychology, and for reducing longstanding inequities in healthcare access and quality. This paper describes how computational linguistics approaches could address the {``}reproducibility crisis{''} facing social science, particularly with regards to reliable diagnosis of neurodevelopmental and psychiatric conditions including autism spectrum disorder (ASD). It is argued that these improvements in scientific integrity are poised to naturally reduce persistent healthcare inequities in neglected subpopulations, such as verbally fluent girls and women with ASD, but that concerted attention to this issue is necessary to avoid reproducing biases built into training data. Finally, it is suggested that computational linguistics is just one component of an emergent digital phenotyping toolkit that could ultimately be used for clinical decision support, to improve clinical care via precision medicine (i.e., personalized intervention planning), granular treatment response monitoring (including remotely), and for gene-brain-behavior studies aiming to pinpoint the underlying biological etiology of otherwise behaviorally-defined conditions like ASD.
The Semantic Verbal Fluency (SVF) task is a classical neuropsychological assessment where persons are asked to produce words belonging to a semantic category (e.g., animals) in a given time. This paper introduces a novel method of temporal analysis for SVF tasks utilizing time intervals and applies it to a corpus of elderly Swedish subjects (mild cognitive impairment, subjective cognitive impairment and healthy controls). A general decline in word count and lexical frequency over the course of the task is revealed, as well as an increase in word transition times. Persons with subjective cognitive impairment had a higher word count during the last intervals, but produced words of the same lexical frequencies. Persons with MCI had a steeper decline in both word count and lexical frequencies during the third interval. Additional correlations with neuropsychological scores suggest these findings are linked to a person{'}s overall vocabulary size and processing speed, respectively. Classification results improved when adding the novel features (AUC=0.72), supporting their diagnostic value.
The ability to track mental health conditions via social media opened the doors for large-scale, automated, mental health surveillance. However, inferring accurate population-level trends requires representative samples of the underlying population, which can be challenging given the biases inherent in social media data. While previous work has adjusted samples based on demographic estimates, the populations were selected based on specific outcomes, e.g. specific mental health conditions. We depart from these methods, by conducting analyses over demographically representative digital cohorts of social media users. To validated this approach, we constructed a cohort of US based Twitter users to measure the prevalence of depression and PTSD, and investigate how these illnesses manifest across demographic subpopulations. The analysis demonstrates that cohort-based studies can help control for sampling biases, contextualize outcomes, and provide deeper insights into the data.
Implicit motives allow for the characterization of behavior, subsequent success and long-term development. While this has been operationalized in the operant motive test, research on motives has declined mainly due to labor-intensive and costly human annotation. In this study, we analyze over 200,000 labeled data items from 40,000 participants and utilize them for engineering features for training a logistic model tree machine learning model. It captures manually assigned motives well with an F-score of 80{\%}, coming close to the pairwise annotator intraclass correlation coefficient of r = .85. In addition, we found a significant correlation of r = .2 between subsequent academic success and data automatically labeled with our model in an extrinsic evaluation.
Incoherent discourse in schizophrenia has long been recognized as a dominant symptom of the mental disorder (Bleuler, 1911/1950). Recent studies have used modern sentence and word embeddings to compute coherence metrics for spontaneous speech in schizophrenia. While clinical ratings always have a subjective element, computational linguistic methodology allows quantification of speech abnormalities. Clinical and empirical knowledge from psychiatry provide the theoretical and conceptual basis for modelling. Our study is an interdisciplinary attempt at improving coherence models in schizophrenia. Speech samples were obtained from healthy controls and patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and different severity of positive formal thought disorder. Interviews were transcribed and coherence metrics derived from different embeddings. One model found higher coherence metrics for controls than patients. All other models remained non-significant. More detailed analysis of the data motivates different approaches to improving coherence models in schizophrenia, e.g. by assessing referential abnormalities.
Verbal memory is affected by numerous clinical conditions and most neuropsychological and clinical examinations evaluate it. However, a bottleneck exists in such endeavors because traditional methods require expert human review, and usually only a couple of test versions exist, thus limiting the frequency of administration and clinical applications. The present study overcomes this bottleneck by automating the administration, transcription, analysis and scoring of story recall. A large group of healthy participants (n = 120) and patients with mental illness (n = 105) interacted with a mobile application that administered a wide range of assessments, including verbal memory. The resulting speech generated by participants when retelling stories from the memory task was transcribed using automatic speech recognition tools, which was compared with human transcriptions (overall word error rate = 21{\%}). An assortment of surface-level and semantic language-based features were extracted from the verbal recalls. A final set of three features were used to both predict expert human ratings with a ridge regression model (r = 0.88) and to differentiate patients from healthy individuals with an ensemble of logistic regression classifiers (accuracy = 76{\%}). This is the first {`}outside of the laboratory{'} study to showcase the viability of the complete pipeline of automated assessment of verbal memory in naturalistic settings.
Recent psycholinguistic evidence suggests that human parsing of moved elements is {`}active{'}, and perhaps even {`}hyper-active{'}: it seems that a leftward-moved object is related to a verbal position rapidly, perhaps even before the transitivity information associated with the verb is available to the listener. This paper presents a formal, sound and complete parser for Minimalist Grammars whose search space contains branching points that we can identify as the locus of the decision to perform this kind of active gap-finding. This brings formal models of parsing into closer contact with recent psycholinguistic theorizing than was previously possible.
The word {``}to{''} that precedes verbs in English infinitives is optional in at least two environments: in what Wasow et al. (2015) previously called the {``}do-be{''} construction, and in the complement of {``}help{''}, which we explore in the present work. In the {``}do-be{''} construction, Wasow et al. found that a preceding infinitival {``}to{''} increases the use of following optional {``}to{''}, but the use of {``}to{''} in the complement of help is reduced following {``}to help{''}. We examine two hypotheses regarding why the same function word is primed by prior use in one construction and inhibited in another. We then test predictions made by the two hypotheses, finding support for one of them.
Multilingual speakers are able to switch from one language to the other ({``}code-switch{''}) between or within sentences. Because the underlying cognitive mechanisms are not well understood, in this study we use computational cognitive modeling to shed light on the process of code-switching. We employed the Bilingual Dual-path model, a Recurrent Neural Network of bilingual sentence production (Tsoukala et al., 2017), and simulated sentence production in simultaneous Spanish-English bilinguals. Our first goal was to investigate whether the model would code-switch without being exposed to code-switched training input. The model indeed produced code-switches even without any exposure to such input and the patterns of code-switches are in line with earlier linguistic work (Poplack,1980). The second goal of this study was to investigate an auxiliary phrase asymmetry that exists in Spanish-English code-switched production. Using this cognitive model, we examined a possible cause for this asymmetry. To our knowledge, this is the first computational cognitive model that aims to simulate code-switched sentence production.
Based on the Production-Distribution-Comprehension (PDC) account of language processing, we formulate two distinct hypotheses about case marking, word order choices and processing in Hindi. Our first hypothesis is that Hindi tends to optimize for processing efficiency at both lexical and syntactic levels. We quantify the role of case markers in this process. For the task of predicting the reference sentence occurring in a corpus (amidst meaning-equivalent grammatical variants) using a machine learning model, surprisal estimates from an artificial version of the language (i.e., Hindi without any case markers) result in lower prediction accuracy compared to natural Hindi. Our second hypothesis is that Hindi tends to minimize interference due to case markers while ordering preverbal constituents. We show that Hindi tends to avoid placing next to each other constituents whose heads are marked by identical case inflections. Our findings adhere to PDC assumptions and we discuss their implications for language production, learning and universals.
Processing difficulty in online language comprehension has been explained in terms of surprisal and entropy reduction. Although both hypotheses have been supported by experimental data, we do not fully understand their relative contributions on processing difficulty. To develop a better understanding, we propose a mechanistic model of perceptual decision making that interacts with a simulated task environment with temporal dynamics. The proposed model collects noisy bottom-up evidence over multiple timesteps, integrates it with its top-down expectation, and makes perceptual decisions, producing processing time data directly without relying on any linking hypothesis. Temporal dynamics in the task environment was determined by a simple finite-state grammar, which was designed to create the situations where the surprisal and entropy reduction hypotheses predict different patterns. After the model was trained to maximize rewards, the model developed an adaptive policy and both surprisal and entropy effects were observed especially in a measure reflecting earlier processing.
Cues to linguistic categories are distributed across the speech signal. Optimal categorization thus requires that listeners maintain gradient representations of incoming input in order to integrate that information with later cues. There is now evidence that listeners can and do integrate cues that occur far apart in time. Computational models of this integration have however been lacking. We take a first step at addressing this gap by mathematically formalizing four models of how listeners may maintain and use cue information during spoken language understanding and test them on two perception experiments. In one experiment, we find support for rational integration of cues at long distances. In a second, more memory and attention-taxing experiment, we find evidence in favor of a switching model that avoids maintaining detailed representations of cues in memory. These results are a first step in understanding what kinds of mechanisms listeners use for cue integration under different memory and attentional constraints.
This paper presents the first results of a multidisciplinary project, the {``}Evolex{''} project, gathering researchers in Psycholinguistics, Neuropsychology, Computer Science, Natural Language Processing and Linguistics. The Evolex project aims at proposing a new data-based inductive method for automatically characterising the relation between pairs of french words collected in psycholinguistics experiments on lexical access. This method takes advantage of several complementary computational measures of semantic similarity. We show that some measures are more correlated than others with the frequency of lexical associations, and that they also differ in the way they capture different semantic relations. This allows us to consider building a multidimensional lexical similarity to automate the classification of lexical associations.
Backward saccades during reading have been hypothesized to be involved in structural reanalysis, or to be related to the level of text difficulty. We test the hypothesis that backward saccades are involved in online syntactic analysis. If this is the case we expect that saccades will coincide, at least partially, with the edges of the relations computed by a dependency parser. In order to test this, we analyzed a large eye-tracking dataset collected while 102 participants read three short narrative texts. Our results show a relation between backward saccades and the syntactic structure of sentences.
We propose a novel framework for modeling event-related potentials (ERPs) collected during reading that couples pre-trained convolutional decoders with a language model. Using this framework, we compare the abilities of a variety of existing and novel sentence processing models to reconstruct ERPs. We find that modern contextual word embeddings underperform surprisal-based models but that, combined, the two outperform either on its own.
Stabler{'}s (2013) top-down parser for Minimalist grammars has been used to account for off-line processing preferences across a variety of seemingly unrelated phenomena cross-linguistically, via complexity metrics measuring {``}memory burden{''}. This paper extends the empirical coverage of the model by looking at the processing asymmetries of Italian relative clauses, as I discuss the relevance of these constructions in evaluating plausible structure-driven models of processing difficulty.
Inspired by the literature on multisensory integration, we develop a computational model to ground quantifiers in perception. The model learns to pick, out of nine quantifiers ({`}few{'}, {`}many{'}, {`}all{'}, etc.), the one that is more likely to describe the percent of animals in a visual-auditory input containing both animals and artifacts. We show that relying on concurrent sensory inputs increases model performance on the quantification task. Moreover, we evaluate the model in a situation in which only the auditory modality is given, while the visual one is {`}hallucinanted{'} either from the auditory input itself or from a linguistic caption describing the quantity of entities in the auditory input. This way, the model exploits prior associations between modalities. We show that the model profits from the prior knowledge and outperforms the auditory-only setting.
A usage-based Construction Grammar (CxG) posits that slot-constraints generalize from common exemplar constructions. But what is the best model of constraint generalization? This paper evaluates competing frequency-based and association-based models across eight languages using a metric derived from the Minimum Description Length paradigm. The experiments show that association-based models produce better generalizations across all languages by a significant margin.
How do children learn abstract concepts such as animal vs. artifact? Previous research has suggested that such concepts can partly be derived using cues from the language children hear around them. Following this suggestion, we propose a model where we represent the children{'} developing lexicon as an evolving network. The nodes of this network are based on vocabulary knowledge as reported by parents, and the edges between pairs of nodes are based on the probability of their co-occurrence in a corpus of child-directed speech. We found that several abstract categories can be identified as the dense regions in such networks. In addition, our simulations suggest that these categories develop simultaneously, rather than sequentially, thanks to the children{'}s word learning trajectory which favors the exploration of the global conceptual space.
Sentences like {``}Every child climbed a tree{''} have at least two interpretations depending on the precedence order of the universal quantifier and the indefinite. Previous experimental work explores the role that different mechanisms such as semantic reanalysis and world knowledge may have in enabling each interpretation. This paper discusses a web-based task that uses the verb-second characteristic of German main clauses to estimate the influence of word order variation over world knowledge.
How are the meanings of linguistic expressions related to their use in concrete cognitive tasks? Visual identification tasks show human speakers can exhibit considerable variation in their understanding, representation and verification of certain quantifiers. This paper initiates an investigation into neural models of these psycho-semantic tasks. We trained two types of network {--} a convolutional neural network (CNN) model and a recurrent model of visual attention (RAM) {--} on the {``}most{''} verification task from Pietroski2009, manipulating the visual scene and novel notions of task duration. Our results qualitatively mirror certain features of human performance (such as sensitivity to the ratio of set sizes, indicating a reliance on approximate number) while differing in interesting ways (such as exhibiting a subtly different pattern for the effect of image type). We conclude by discussing the prospects for using neural models as cognitive models of this and other psychosemantic tasks.
In this study, we address the problem of part-of-speech (or syntactic category) learning during language acquisition through distributional analysis of utterances. A model based on Redington et al.{'}s (1998) distributional learner is used to investigate the informativeness of distributional information in Brazilian Portuguese (BP). The data provided to the learner comes from two publicly available corpora of child directed speech. We present preliminary results from two experiments. The first one investigates the effects of different assumptions about utterance boundaries when presenting the input data to the learner. The second experiment compares the learner{'}s performance when counting contextual words{'} frequencies versus just acknowledging their co-occurrence with a given target word. In general, our results indicate that explicit boundaries are more informative, frequencies are important, and that distributional information is useful to the child as a source of categorial information. These results are in accordance with Redington et al.{'}s findings for English.
The fields of cognitive science and philosophy have proposed many different theories for how humans represent {``}concepts{''}. Multiple such theories are compatible with state-of-the-art NLP methods, and could in principle be operationalized using neural networks. We focus on two particularly prominent theories{--}Classical Theory and Prototype Theory{--}in the context of visually-grounded lexical representations. We compare when and how the behavior of models based on these theories differs in terms of categorization and entailment tasks. Our preliminary results suggest that Classical-based representations perform better for entailment and Prototype-based representations perform better for categorization. We discuss plans for additional experiments needed to confirm these initial observations.
In many NLP applications like search and information extraction for named entities, it is necessary to find all the mentions of a named entity, some of which appear as pronouns (she, his, etc.) or nominals (the professor, the German chancellor, etc.). It is therefore important that coreference resolution systems are able to link these different types of mentions to the correct entity name. We evaluate state-of-the-art coreference resolution systems for the task of resolving all mentions to named entities. Our analysis reveals that standard coreference metrics do not reflect adequately the requirements in this task: they do not penalize systems for not identifying any mentions by name to an entity and they reward systems even if systems find correctly mentions to the same entity but fail to link these to a proper name (she{--}the student{--}no name). We introduce new metrics for evaluating named entity coreference that address these discrepancies and show that for the comparisons of competitive systems, standard coreference evaluations could give misleading results for this task. We are, however, able to confirm that the state-of-the art system according to traditional evaluations also performs vastly better than other systems on the named entity coreference task.
We propose an end-to-end coreference resolution system obtained by adapting neural models that have recently improved the state-of-the-art on the OntoNotes benchmark to make them applicable to other paradigms for this task. We report the performances of our system on ANCOR, a corpus of transcribed oral French, for which it constitutes a new baseline with proper evaluation.
We explore different approaches to explicit entity modelling in language models (LM). We independently replicate two existing models in a controlled setup, introduce a simplified variant of one of the models and analyze their performance in direct comparison. Our results suggest that today{'}s models are limited as several stochastic variables make learning difficult. We show that the most challenging point in the systems is the decision if the next token is an entity token. The low precision and recall for this variable will lead to severe cascading errors. Our own simplified approach dispenses with the need for latent variables and improves the performance in the entity yes/no decision. A standard well-tuned baseline RNN-LM with a larger number of hidden units outperforms all entity-enabled LMs in terms of perplexity.
Clustering unlinkable entity mentions across documents in multiple languages (cross-lingual NIL Clustering) is an important task as part of Entity Discovery and Linking (EDL). This task has been largely neglected by the EDL community because it is challenging to outperform simple edit distance or other heuristics based baselines. We propose a novel approach based on encoding the orthographic similarity of the mentions using a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) architecture. Our model adapts a training procedure from the one-shot facial recognition literature in order to achieve this. We also perform several exploratory probing tasks on our name encodings in order to determine what specific types of information are likely to be encoded by our model. Experiments show our approach provides up to a 6.6{\%} absolute CEAFm F-Score improvement over state-of-the-art methods and successfully captures phonological relations across languages.
In the present paper, we deal with incongruences in English-German multilingual coreference annotation and present automated methods to discover them. More specifically, we automatically detect full coreference chains in parallel texts and analyse discrepancies in their annotations. In doing so, we wish to find out whether the discrepancies rather derive from language typological constraints, from the translation or the actual annotation process. The results of our study contribute to the referential analysis of similarities and differences across languages and support evaluation of cross-lingual coreference annotation. They are also useful for cross-lingual coreference resolution systems and contrastive linguistic studies.
In this paper, we present a cross-lingual neural coreference resolution system for a less-resourced language such as Basque. To begin with, we build the first neural coreference resolution system for Basque, training it with the relatively small EPEC-KORREF corpus (45,000 words). Next, a cross-lingual coreference resolution system is designed. With this approach, the system learns from a bigger English corpus, using cross-lingual embeddings, to perform the coreference resolution for Basque. The cross-lingual system obtains slightly better results (40.93 F1 CoNLL) than the monolingual system (39.12 F1 CoNLL), without using any Basque language corpus to train it.
In this exploratory study, we attempt to automatically induce PDTB-style relations from RST trees. We work with a German corpus of news commentary articles, annotated for RST trees and explicit PDTB-style relations and we focus on inducing the implicit relations in an automated way. Preliminary results look promising as a high-precision (but low-recall) way of finding implicit relations where there is no shallow structure annotated at all, but mapping proves more difficult in cases where EDUs and relation arguments overlap, yet do not seem to signal the same relation.
Implicit discourse relation classification is one of the most challenging and important tasks in discourse parsing, due to the lack of connectives as strong linguistic cues. A principle bottleneck to further improvement is the shortage of training data (ca. 18k instances in the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB)). Shi et al. (2017) proposed to acquire additional data by exploiting connectives in translation: human translators mark discourse relations which are implicit in the source language explicitly in the translation. Using back-translations of such explicitated connectives improves discourse relation parsing performance. This paper addresses the open question of whether the choice of the translation language matters, and whether multiple translations into different languages can be effectively used to improve the quality of the additional data.
The first step in discourse analysis involves dividing a text into segments. We annotate the first high-quality small-scale medical corpus in English with discourse segments and analyze how well news-trained segmenters perform on this domain. While we expectedly find a drop in performance, the nature of the segmentation errors suggests some problems can be addressed earlier in the pipeline, while others would require expanding the corpus to a trainable size to learn the nuances of the medical domain.
We investigate the relationship between the notion of nuclearity as proposed in Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) and the signalling of coherence relations. RST relations are categorized as either mononuclear (comprising a nucleus and a satellite span) or multinuclear (comprising two or more nuclei spans). We examine how mononuclear relations (e.g., Antithesis, Condition) and multinuclear relations (e.g., Contrast, List) are indicated by relational signals, more particularly by discourse markers (e.g., because, however, if, therefore). We conduct a corpus study, examining the distribution of either type of relations in the RST Discourse Treebank (Carlson et al., 2002) and the distribution of discourse markers for those relations in the RST Signalling Corpus (Das et al., 2015). Our results show that discourse markers are used more often to signal multinuclear relations than mononuclear relations. The findings also suggest a complex relationship between the relation types and syntactic categories of discourse markers (subordinating and coordinating conjunctions).
The relational status of Attribution in Rhetorical Structure Theory has been a matter of ongoing debate. Although several researchers have weighed in on the topic, and although numerous studies have relied upon attributional structures for their analyses, nothing approaching consensus has emerged. This paper identifies three basic issues that must be resolved to determine the relational status of attributions. These are identified as the Discourse Units Issue, the Nuclearity Issue, and the Relation Identification Issue. These three issues are analyzed from the perspective of classical RST. A finding of this analysis is that the nuclearity and the relational identification of attribution structures are shown to depend on the writer{'}s intended effect, such that attributional relations cannot be considered as a single relation, but rather as attributional instances of other RST relations.
We introduce our pilot study applying PDTB-style annotation to Twitter conversations. Lexically grounded coherence annotation for Twitter threads will enable detailed investigations of the discourse structure of conversations on social media. Here, we present our corpus of 185 threads and annotation, including an inter-annotator agreement study. We discuss our observations as to how Twitter discourses differ from written news text wrt. discourse connectives and relations. We confirm our hypothesis that discourse relations in written social media conversations are expressed differently than in (news) text. We find that in Twitter, connective arguments frequently are not full syntactic clauses, and that a few general connectives expressing EXPANSION and CONTINGENCY make up the majority of the explicit relations in our data.
This paper presents a new system for open-ended discourse relation signal annotation in the framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST), implemented on top of an online tool for RST annotation. We discuss existing projects annotating textual signals of discourse relations, which have so far not allowed simultaneously structuring and annotating words signaling hierarchical discourse trees, and demonstrate the design and applications of our interface by extending existing RST annotations in the freely available GUM corpus.
Development of discourse parsers to annotate the relational discourse structure of a text is crucial for many downstream tasks. However, most of the existing work focuses on English, assuming a quite large dataset. Discourse data have been annotated for Basque, but training a system on these data is challenging since the corpus is very small. In this paper, we create the first demonstrator based on RST for Basque, and we investigate the use of data in another language to improve the performance of a Basque discourse parser. More precisely, we build a monolingual system using the small set of data available and investigate the use of multilingual word embeddings to train a system for Basque using data annotated for another language. We found that our approach to building a system limited to the small set of data available for Basque allowed us to get an improvement over previous approaches making use of many data annotated in other languages. At best, we get 34.78 in F1 for the full discourse structure. More data annotation is necessary in order to improve the results obtained with these techniques. We also describe which relations match with the gold standard, in order to understand these results.
Recent research on discourse relations has found that they are cued not only by discourse markers (DMs) but also by other textual signals and that signaling information is indicative of genres. While several corpora exist with discourse relation signaling information such as the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB, Prasad et al. 2008) and the Rhetorical Structure Theory Signalling Corpus (RST-SC, Das and Taboada 2018), they both annotate the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) section of the Penn Treebank (PTB, Marcus et al. 1993), which is limited to the news domain. Thus, this paper adapts the signal identification and anchoring scheme (Liu and Zeldes, 2019) to three more genres, examines the distribution of signaling devices across relations and genres, and provides a taxonomy of indicative signals found in this dataset.
Results of the first experimental evaluation of machine learning models trained on Ru-RSTreebank {--} first Russian corpus annotated within RST framework {--} are presented. Various lexical, quantitative, morphological, and semantic features were used. In rhetorical relation classification, ensemble of CatBoost model with selected features and a linear SVM model provides the best score (macro F1 = 54.67 {\mbox{$\pm$}} 0.38). We discover that most of the important features for rhetorical relation classification are related to discourse connectives derived from the connectives lexicon for Russian and from other sources.
This paper presents RST-Tace, a tool for automatic comparison and evaluation of RST trees. RST-Tace serves as an implementation of Iruskieta{'}s comparison method, which allows trees to be compared and evaluated without the influence of decisions at lower levels in a tree in terms of four factors: constituent, attachment point, nuclearity as well as relation. RST-Tace can be used regardless of the language or the size of rhetorical trees. This tool aims to measure the agreement between two annotators. The result is reflected by F-measure and inter-annotator agreement. Both the comparison table and the result of the evaluation can be obtained automatically.
We describe a series of experiments applied to data sets from different languages and genres annotated for coherence relations according to different theoretical frameworks. Specifically, we investigate the feasibility of a unified (theory-neutral) approach toward discourse segmentation; a process which divides a text into minimal discourse units that are involved in s coherence relation. We apply a RandomForest and an LSTM based approach for all data sets, and we improve over a simple baseline assuming simple sentence or clause-like segmentation. Performance however varies a lot depending on language, and more importantly genre, with f-scores ranging from 73.00 to 94.47.
Discourse information is crucial for a better understanding of the text structure and it is also necessary to describe which part of an opinionated text is more relevant or to decide how a text span can change the polarity (strengthen or weaken) of other span by means of coherence relations. This work presents the first results on the annotation of the Basque Opinion Corpus using Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST). Our evaluation results and analysis show us the main avenues to improve on a future annotation process. We have also extracted the subjectivity of several rhetorical relations and the results show the effect of sentiment words in relations and the influence of each relation in the semantic orientation value.
This study aims to model the discourse structure of spontaneous spoken responses within the context of an assessment of English speaking proficiency for non-native speakers. Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) has been commonly used in the analysis of discourse organization of written texts; however, limited research has been conducted to date on RST annotation and parsing of spoken language, in particular, non-native spontaneous speech. Due to the fact that the measurement of discourse coherence is typically a key metric in human scoring rubrics for assessments of spoken language, we conducted research to obtain RST annotations on non-native spoken responses from a standardized assessment of academic English proficiency. Subsequently, automatic parsers were trained on these annotations to process non-native spontaneous speech. Finally, a set of features were extracted from automatically generated RST trees to evaluate the discourse structure of non-native spontaneous speech, which were then employed to further improve the validity of an automated speech scoring system.
We present a package of annotation resources, including annotation guideline, flowchart, and an Intelligent Tutoring System for training human annotators. These resources can be used to apply Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) to essays written by students in K-12 schools. Furthermore, we highlight the great potential of using RST to provide automated feedback for improving writing quality across genres.
The increased demand for structured scientific knowledge has attracted considerable attention in extracting scientific relation from the ever growing scientific publications. Distant supervision is widely applied approach to automatically generate large amounts of labelled data with low manual annotation cost. However, distant supervision inevitably accompanies the wrong labelling problem, which will negatively affect the performance of Relation Extraction (RE). To address this issue, (Han et al., 2018) proposes a novel framework for jointly training both RE model and Knowledge Graph Completion (KGC) model to extract structured knowledge from non-scientific dataset. In this work, we firstly investigate the feasibility of this framework on scientific dataset, specifically on biomedical dataset. Secondly, to achieve better performance on the biomedical dataset, we extend the framework with other competitive KGC models. Moreover, we proposed a new end-to-end KGC model to extend the framework. Experimental results not only show the feasibility of the framework on the biomedical dataset, but also indicate the effectiveness of our extensions, because our extended model achieves significant and consistent improvements on distant supervised RE as compared with baselines.
As scientific communities grow and evolve, there is a high demand for improved methods for finding relevant papers, comparing papers on similar topics and studying trends in the research community. All these tasks involve the common problem of extracting structured information from scientific articles. In this paper, we propose a novel, scalable, semi-supervised method for extracting relevant structured information from the vast available raw scientific literature. We extract the fundamental concepts of {``}aim{''}, {''}method{''} and {``}result{''} from scientific articles and use them to construct a knowledge graph. Our algorithm makes use of domain-based word embedding and the bootstrap framework. Our experiments show that our system achieves precision and recall comparable to the state of the art. We also show the domain independence of our algorithm by analyzing the research trends of two distinct communities - computational linguistics and computer vision.
An important task in the machine reading of biochemical events expressed in biomedical texts is correctly reading the polarity, i.e., attributing whether the biochemical event is a promotion or an inhibition. Here we present a novel dataset for studying polarity attribution accuracy. We use this dataset to train and evaluate several deep learning models for polarity identification, and compare these to a linguistically-informed model. The best performing deep learning architecture achieves 0.968 average F1 performance in a five-fold cross-validation study, a considerable improvement over the linguistically informed model average F1 of 0.862.
Datasets are integral artifacts of empirical scientific research. However, due to natural language variation, their recognition can be difficult and even when identified, can often be inconsistently referred across and within publications. We report our approach to the Coleridge Initiative{'}s Rich Context Competition, which tasks participants with identifying dataset surface forms (dataset mention extraction) and associating the extracted mention to its referred dataset (dataset classification). In this work, we propose various neural baselines and evaluate these model on one-plus and zero-shot classification scenarios. We further explore various joint learning approaches - exploring the synergy between the tasks - and report the issues with such techniques.
This paper explores a task for extracting a technological expression and its pros/cons from computer science papers. We report ongoing efforts on an annotated corpus of pros/cons and an analysis of the nature of the automatic extraction task. Specifically, we show how to adapt the targeted sentiment analysis task for pros/cons extraction in computer science papers and conduct an annotation study. In order to identify the challenges of the automatic extraction task, we construct a strong baseline model and conduct an error analysis. The experiments show that pros/cons can be consistently annotated by several annotators, and that the task is challenging due to domain-specific knowledge. The annotated dataset is made publicly available for research purposes.
Standard paradigms for search do not work well in the medical context. Typical information needs, such as retrieving a full list of medical interventions for a given condition, or finding the reported efficacy of a particular treatment with respect to a specific outcome of interest cannot be straightforwardly posed in typical text-box search. Instead, we propose faceted-search in which a user specifies a condition and then can browse treatments and outcomes that have been evaluated. Choosing from these, they can access randomized control trials (RCTs) describing individual studies. Realizing such a view of the medical evidence requires information extraction techniques to identify the population, interventions, and outcome measures in an RCT. Patients, health practitioners, and biomedical librarians all stand to benefit from such innovation in search of medical evidence. We present an initial prototype of such an interface applied to pre-registered clinical studies. We also discuss pilot studies into the applicability of information extraction methods to allow for similar access to all published trial results.
Toponym detection in scientific papers is an open task and a key first step in place entity enrichment of documents. We examine three common neural architectures in NLP: 1) convolutional neural network, 2) multi-layer perceptron (both applied in a sliding window context) and 3) bidirectional LSTM and apply contextual and non-contextual word embedding layers to these models. We find that deep contextual word embeddings improve the performance of the bi-LSTM with CRF neural architecture achieving the best performance when multiple layers of deep contextual embeddings are concatenated. Our best performing model achieves an average F1 of 0.910 when evaluated on overlap macro exceeding previous state-of-the-art models in the toponym detection task.
Chinese idioms (Cheng Yu) have seen five thousand years{'} history and culture of China, meanwhile they contain large number of scientific achievement of ancient China. However, existing Chinese online idiom dictionaries have limited function for scientific exploration. In this paper, we first construct a Chinese idiom knowledge graph by extracting domains and dynasties and associating them with idioms, and based on the idiom knowledge graph, we propose a Science Toolkit for Ancient China (STAC) aiming to support scientific exploration. In the STAC toolkit, idiom navigator helps users explore overall scientific progress from idiom perspective with visualization tools, and idiom card and idiom QA shorten action path and avoid thinking being interrupted while users are reading and writing. The current STAC toolkit is deployed at http://120.92.208.22:7476/demo/{\#}/stac.
Understanding procedural text requires tracking entities, actions and effects as the narrative unfolds. We focus on the challenging real-world problem of action-graph extraction from materials science papers, where language is highly specialized and data annotation is expensive and scarce. We propose a novel approach, Text2Quest, where procedural text is interpreted as instructions for an interactive game. A learning agent completes the game by executing the procedure correctly in a text-based simulated lab environment. The framework can complement existing approaches and enables richer forms of learning compared to static texts. We discuss potential limitations and advantages of the approach, and release a prototype proof-of-concept, hoping to encourage research in this direction.
Mathematical expressions (ME) are widely used in scholar documents. In this paper we analyze characteristics of textual and visual MEs characteristics for the image-to-LaTeX translation task. While there are open data-sets of LaTeX files with MEs included it is very complicated to extract these MEs from a document and to compile the list of MEs. Therefore we release a corpus of open-access scholar documents with PDF and JATS-XML parallel files. The MEs in these documents are LaTeX encoded and are document independent. The data contains more than 1.2 million distinct annotated formulae and more than 80 million raw tokens of LaTeX MEs in more than 8 thousand documents. While the variety of textual lengths and visual sizes of MEs are not well defined we found that the task of analyzing MEs in scholar documents can be reduced to the subtask of a particular text length, image width and height bounds, and display MEs can be processed as arrays of partial MEs.
To understand historical texts, we must be aware that language{---}including the emotional connotation attached to words{---}changes over time. In this paper, we aim at estimating the emotion which is associated with a given word in former language stages of English and German. Emotion is represented following the popular Valence-Arousal-Dominance (VAD) annotation scheme. While being more expressive than polarity alone, existing word emotion induction methods are typically not suited for addressing it. To overcome this limitation, we present adaptations of two popular algorithms to VAD. To measure their effectiveness in diachronic settings, we present the first gold standard for historical word emotions, which was created by scholars with proficiency in the respective language stages and covers both English and German. In contrast to claims in previous work, our findings indicate that hand-selecting small sets of seed words with supposedly stable emotional meaning is actually harm- rather than helpful.
This article focuses on the problem of identifying articles and recovering their text from within and across newspaper pages when OCR just delivers one text file per page. We frame the task as a segmentation plus clustering step. Our results on a sample of 1912 New York Tribune magazine shows that performing the clustering based on similarities computed with word embeddings outperforms a similarity measure based on character n-grams and words. Furthermore, the automatic segmentation based on the text results in low scores, due to the low quality of some OCRed documents.
Scholarly practices within the humanities have historically been perceived as distinct from the natural sciences. We look at literary studies, a discipline strongly anchored in the humanities, and hypothesize that over the past half-century literary studies has instead undergone a process of {``}scientization{''}, adopting linguistic behavior similar to the sciences. We test this using methods based on information theory, comparing a corpus of literary studies articles (around 63,400) with a corpus of standard English and scientific English respectively. We show evidence for {``}scientization{''} effects in literary studies, though at a more muted level than scientific English, suggesting that literary studies occupies a middle ground with respect to standard English in the larger space of academic disciplines. More generally, our methodology can be applied to investigate the social positioning and development of language use across different domains (e.g. scientific disciplines, language varieties, registers).
According to the literary theory of Mikhail Bakhtin, a dialogic novel is one in which characters speak in their own distinct voices, rather than serving as mouthpieces for their authors. We use text classification to determine which authors best achieve dialogism, looking at a corpus of plays from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. We find that the SAGE model of text generation, which highlights deviations from a background lexical distribution, is an effective method of weighting the words of characters{'} utterances. Our results show that it is indeed possible to distinguish characters by their speech in the plays of canonical writers such as George Bernard Shaw, whereas characters are clustered more closely in the works of lesser-known playwrights.
This paper presents a modular NLP pipeline for the creation of a parallel literature corpus, followed by annotation transfer from the source to the target language. The test case we use to evaluate our pipeline is the automatic transfer of quote and speaker mention annotations from English to German. We evaluate the different components of the pipeline and discuss challenges specific to literary texts. Our experiments show that after applying a reasonable amount of semi-automatic postprocessing we can obtain high-quality aligned and annotated resources for a new language.
The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) provides a trove of data on how environmental policy decisions have been made in the United States over the last 50 years. Unfortunately, there is no central database for this information and it is too voluminous to assess manually. We describe our efforts to enable systematic research over US environmental policy by extracting and organizing metadata from the text of NEPA documents. Our contributions include collecting more than 40,000 NEPA-related documents, and evaluating rule-based baselines that establish the difficulty of three important tasks: identifying lead agencies, aligning document versions, and detecting reused text.
Classification of texts by genre is an important application of natural language processing to literary corpora but remains understudied for premodern and non-English traditions. We develop a stylometric feature set for ancient Greek that enables identification of texts as prose or verse. The set contains over 20 primarily syntactic features, which are calculated according to custom, language-specific heuristics. Using these features, we classify almost all surviving classical Greek literature as prose or verse with {\textgreater}97{\%} accuracy and F1 score, and further classify a selection of the verse texts into the traditional genres of epic and drama.
In the Humanities and Social Sciences, there is increasing interest in approaches to information extraction, prediction, intelligent linkage, and dimension reduction applicable to large text corpora. With approaches in these fields being grounded in traditional statistical techniques, the need arises for frameworks whereby advanced NLP techniques such as topic modelling may be incorporated within classical methodologies. This paper provides a classical, supervised, statistical learning framework for prediction from text, using topic models as a data reduction method and the topics themselves as predictors, alongside typical statistical tools for predictive modelling. We apply this framework in a Social Sciences context (applied animal behaviour) as well as a Humanities context (narrative analysis) as examples of this framework. The results show that topic regression models perform comparably to their much less efficient equivalents that use individual words as predictors.
This paper studies the use of NMT (neural machine translation) as a normalization method for an early English letter corpus. The corpus has previously been normalized so that only less frequent deviant forms are left out without normalization. This paper discusses different methods for improving the normalization of these deviant forms by using different approaches. Adding features to the training data is found to be unhelpful, but using a lexicographical resource to filter the top candidates produced by the NMT model together with lemmatization improves results.
This work considers a task from traditional literary criticism: annotating a structured, composite document with information about its sources. We take the Documentary Hypothesis, a prominent theory regarding the composition of the first five books of the Hebrew bible, extract stylistic features designed to avoid bias or overfitting, and train several classification models. Our main result is that the recently-introduced graph convolutional network architecture outperforms structurally-uninformed models. We also find that including information about the granularity of text spans is a crucial ingredient when employing hidden layers, in contrast to simple logistic regression. We perform error analysis at several levels, noting how some characteristic limitations of the models and simple features lead to misclassifications, and conclude with an overview of future work.
We have created two sets of labels for Hafez (1315-1390) poems, using unsupervised learning. Our labels are the only semantic clustering alternative to the previously existing, hand-labeled, gold-standard classification of Hafez poems, to be used for literary research. We have cross-referenced, measured and analyzed the agreements of our clustering labels with Houman{'}s chronological classes. Our features are based on topic modeling and word embeddings. We also introduced a similarity of similarities{'} features, we called homothetic clustering approach that proved effective, in case of Hafez{'}s small corpus of ghazals2. Although all our experiments showed different clusters when compared with Houman{'}s classes, we think they were valid in their own right to have provided further insights, and have proved useful as a contrasting alternative to Houman{'}s classes. Our homothetic clusterer and its feature design and engineering framework can be used for further semantic analysis of Hafez{'}s poetry and other similar literary research.
We present Computational Linguistics Applications for Multimedia Services (CLAMS), a platform that provides access to computational content analysis tools for archival multimedia material that appear in different media, such as text, audio, image, and video. The primary goal of CLAMS is: (1) to develop an interchange format between multimodal metadata generation tools to ensure interoperability between tools; (2) to provide users with a portable, user-friendly workflow engine to chain selected tools to extract meaningful analyses; and (3) to create a public software development kit (SDK) for developers that eases deployment of analysis tools within the CLAMS platform. CLAMS is designed to help archives and libraries enrich the metadata associated with their mass-digitized multimedia collections, that would otherwise be largely unsearchable.
Whitespace errors are common to digitized archives. This paper describes a lightweight unsupervised technique for recovering the original whitespace. Our approach is based on count statistics from Google n-grams, which are converted into a likelihood ratio test computed from interpolated trigram and bigram probabilities. To evaluate this approach, we annotate a small corpus of whitespace errors in a digitized corpus of newspapers from the 19th century United States. Our technique identifies and corrects most whitespace errors while introducing a minimal amount of oversegmentation: it achieves 77{\%} recall at a false positive rate of less than 1{\%}, and 91{\%} recall at a false positive rate of less than 3{\%}.
The detection of allusive text reuse is particularly challenging due to the sparse evidence on which allusive references rely {---} commonly based on none or very few shared words. Arguably, lexical semantics can be resorted to since uncovering semantic relations between words has the potential to increase the support underlying the allusion and alleviate the lexical sparsity. A further obstacle is the lack of evaluation benchmark corpora, largely due to the highly interpretative character of the annotation process. In the present paper, we aim to elucidate the feasibility of automated allusion detection. We approach the matter from an Information Retrieval perspective in which referencing texts act as queries and referenced texts as relevant documents to be retrieved, and estimate the difficulty of benchmark corpus compilation by a novel inter-annotator agreement study on query segmentation. Furthermore, we investigate to what extent the integration of lexical semantic information derived from distributional models and ontologies can aid retrieving cases of allusive reuse. The results show that (i) despite low agreement scores, using manual queries considerably improves retrieval performance with respect to a windowing approach, and that (ii) retrieval performance can be moderately boosted with distributional semantics.
Linguistic code-switching (C-S) is common in oral bilingual vernacular speech. When used in literature, C-S becomes an artistic choice that can mirror the patterns of bilingual interactions. But it can also potentially exceed them. What are the limits of C-S? We model features of C-S in corpora of contemporary U.S. Spanish-English literary and conversational data to analyze why some critics view the {`}Spanglish{'} texts of Ilan Stavans as deviating from a C-S norm.
We describe a first attempt at using techniques from computational linguistics to analyze the undeciphered proto-Elamite script. Using hierarchical clustering, n-gram frequencies, and LDA topic models, we both replicate results obtained by manual decipherment and reveal previously-unobserved relationships between signs. This demonstrates the utility of these techniques as an aid to manual decipherment.
Generating coherent and cohesive long-form texts is a challenging task. Previous works relied on large amounts of human-generated texts to train neural language models. However, few attempted to explicitly improve neural language models from the perspectives of coherence and cohesion. In this work, we propose a new neural language model that is equipped with two neural discriminators which provide feedback signals at the levels of sentence (cohesion) and paragraph (coherence). Our model is trained using a simple yet efficient variant of policy gradient, called {`}negative-critical sequence training{'}, which is proposed to eliminate the need of training a separate critic for estimating {`}baseline{'}. Results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, showing improvements over the strong baseline {--} recurrent attention-based bidirectional MLE-trained neural language model.
Characters are a key element of narrative and so character identification plays an important role in automatic narrative understanding. Unfortunately, most prior work that incorporates character identification is not built upon a clear, theoretically grounded concept of character. They either take character identification for granted (e.g., using simple heuristics on referring expressions), or rely on simplified definitions that do not capture important distinctions between characters and other referents in the story. Prior approaches have also been rather complicated, relying, for example, on predefined case bases or ontologies. In this paper we propose a narratologically grounded definition of character for discussion at the workshop, and also demonstrate a preliminary yet straightforward supervised machine learning model with a small set of features that performs well on two corpora. The most important of the two corpora is a set of 46 Russian folktales, on which the model achieves an F1 of 0.81. Error analysis suggests that features relevant to the plot will be necessary for further improvements in performance.
Early proposals for the deep understanding of natural language text advocated an approach of {``}interpretation as abduction,{''} where the meaning of a text was derived as an explanation that logically entailed the input words, given a knowledge base of lexical and commonsense axioms. While most subsequent NLP research has instead pursued statistical and data-driven methods, the approach of interpretation as abduction has seen steady advancements in both theory and software implementations. In this paper, we summarize advances in deriving the logical form of the text, encoding commonsense knowledge, and technologies for scalable abductive reasoning. We then explore the application of these advancements to the deep understanding of a paragraph of news text, where the subtle meaning of words and phrases are resolved by backward chaining on a knowledge base of 80 hand-authored axioms.
In this paper, we advocate the use of Message Sequence Chart (MSC) as a knowledge representation to capture and visualize multi-actor interactions and their temporal ordering. We propose algorithms to automatically extract an MSC from a history narrative. For a given narrative, we first identify verbs which indicate interactions and then use dependency parsing and Semantic Role Labelling based approaches to identify senders (initiating actors) and receivers (other actors involved) for these interaction verbs. As a final step in MSC extraction, we employ a state-of-the art algorithm to temporally re-order these interactions. Our evaluation on multiple publicly available narratives shows improvements over four baselines.
Story infilling involves predicting words to go into a missing span from a story. This challenging task has the potential to transform interactive tools for creative writing. However, state-of-the-art conditional language models have trouble balancing fluency and coherence with novelty and diversity. We address this limitation with a hierarchical model which first selects a set of rare words and then generates text conditioned on that set. By relegating the high entropy task of picking rare words to a word-sampling model, the second-stage model conditioned on those words can achieve high fluency and coherence by searching for likely sentences, without sacrificing diversity.
As with many text generation tasks, the focus of recent progress on story generation has been in producing texts that are perceived to {``}make sense{''} as a whole. There are few automated metrics that address this dimension of story quality even on a shallow lexical level. To initiate investigation into such metrics, we apply a simple approach to identifying word relations that contribute to the {`}narrative sense{'} of a story. We use this approach to comparatively analyze the output of a few notable story generation systems in terms of these relations. We characterize differences in the distributions of relations according to their strength within each story.
In this paper, we extend the persona-based sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) neural network conversation model to a multi-turn dialogue scenario by modifying the state-of-the-art hredGAN architecture to simultaneously capture utterance attributes such as speaker identity, dialogue topic, speaker sentiments and so on. The proposed system, phredGAN has a persona-based HRED generator (PHRED) and a conditional discriminator. We also explore two approaches to accomplish the conditional discriminator: (1) phredGANa, a system that passes the attribute representation as an additional input into a traditional adversarial discriminator, and (2) phredGANd, a dual discriminator system which in addition to the adversarial discriminator, collaboratively predicts the attribute(s) that generated the input utterance. To demonstrate the superior performance of phredGAN over the persona Seq2Seq model, we experiment with two conversational datasets, the Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus (UDC) and TV series transcripts from the Big Bang Theory and Friends. Performance comparison is made with respect to a variety of quantitative measures as well as crowd-sourced human evaluation. We also explore the trade-offs from using either variant of phredGAN on datasets with many but weak attribute modalities (such as with Big Bang Theory and Friends) and ones with few but strong attribute modalities (customer-agent interactions in Ubuntu dataset).
In open-domain dialogue systems, generative approaches have attracted much attention for response generation. However, existing methods are heavily plagued by generating safe responses and unnatural responses. To alleviate these two problems, we propose a novel framework named Dual Adversarial Learning(DAL) for high-quality response generation. DAL innovatively utilizes the duality between query generation and response generation to avoid safe responses and increase the diversity of the generated responses. Additionally, DAL uses adversarial learning to mimic human judges and guides the system to generate natural responses. Experimental results demonstrate that DAL effectively improves both diversity and overall quality of the generated responses. DAL outperforms state-of-the-art methods regarding automatic metrics and human evaluations.
We show that plain ROUGE F1 scores are not ideal for comparing current neural systems which on average produce different lengths. This is due to a non-linear pattern between ROUGE F1 and summary length. To alleviate the effect of length during evaluation, we have proposed a new method which normalizes the ROUGE F1 scores of a system by that of a random system with same average output length. A pilot human evaluation has shown that humans prefer short summaries in terms of the verbosity of a summary but overall consider longer summaries to be of higher quality. While human evaluations are more expensive in time and resources, it is clear that normalization, such as the one we proposed for automatic evaluation, will make human evaluations more meaningful.
We show that BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) is a Markov random field language model. This formulation gives way to a natural procedure to sample sentences from BERT. We generate from BERT and find that it can produce high quality, fluent generations. Compared to the generations of a traditional left-to-right language model, BERT generates sentences that are more diverse but of slightly worse quality.
Neural text simplification has gained increasing attention in the NLP community thanks to recent advancements in deep sequence-to-sequence learning. Most recent efforts with such a data-demanding paradigm have dealt with the English language, for which sizeable training datasets are currently available to deploy competitive models. Similar improvements on less resource-rich languages are conditioned either to intensive manual work to create training data, or to the design of effective automatic generation techniques to bypass the data acquisition bottleneck. Inspired by the machine translation field, in which synthetic parallel pairs generated from monolingual data yield significant improvements to neural models, in this paper we exploit large amounts of heterogeneous data to automatically select simple sentences, which are then used to create synthetic simplification pairs. We also evaluate other solutions, such as oversampling and the use of external word embeddings to be fed to the neural simplification system. Our approach is evaluated on Italian and Spanish, for which few thousand gold sentence pairs are available. The results show that these techniques yield performance improvements over a baseline sequence-to-sequence configuration.
Semi-supervised learning is an efficient way to improve performance for natural language processing systems. In this work, we propose Para-SSL, a scheme to generate candidate utterances using paraphrasing and methods from semi-supervised learning. In order to perform paraphrase generation in the context of a dialog system, we automatically extract paraphrase pairs to create a paraphrase corpus. Using this data, we build a paraphrase generation system and perform one-to-many generation, followed by a validation step to select only the utterances with good quality. The paraphrase-based semi-supervised learning is applied to five functionalities in a natural language understanding system. Our proposed method for semi-supervised learning using paraphrase generation does not require user utterances and can be applied prior to releasing a new functionality to a system. Experiments show that we can achieve up to 19{\%} of relative slot error reduction without an access to user utterances, and up to 35{\%} when leveraging live traffic utterances.
Latent space based GAN methods and attention based sequence to sequence models have achieved impressive results in text generation and unsupervised machine translation respectively. Leveraging the two domains, we propose an adversarial latent space based model capable of generating parallel sentences in two languages concurrently and translating bidirectionally. The bilingual generation goal is achieved by sampling from the latent space that is shared between both languages. First two denoising autoencoders are trained, with shared encoders and back-translation to enforce a shared latent state between the two languages. The decoder is shared for the two translation directions. Next, a GAN is trained to generate synthetic {`}code{'} mimicking the languages{'} shared latent space. This code is then fed into the decoder to generate text in either language. We perform our experiments on Europarl and Multi30k datasets, on the English-French language pair, and document our performance using both supervised and unsupervised machine translation.
Generated output from neural NLG systems often contain errors such as hallucination, repetition or contradiction. This work focuses on designing a symbolic intermediate representation to be used in multi-stage neural generation with the intention of reducing the frequency of failed outputs. We show that surface realization from this intermediate representation is of high quality and when the full system is applied to the E2E dataset it outperforms the winner of the E2E challenge. Furthermore, by breaking out the surface realization step from typically end-to-end neural systems, we also provide a framework for non-neural based content selection and planning systems to potentially take advantage of semi-supervised pretraining of neural surface realization models.
We introduce a simple method for text style transfer that frames style transfer as denoising: we synthesize a noisy corpus and treat the source style as a noisy version of the target style. To control for aspects such as preserving meaning while modifying style, we propose a reranking approach in the data synthesis phase. We evaluate our method on three novel style transfer tasks: transferring between British and American varieties, text genres (formal vs. casual), and lyrics from different musical genres. By measuring style transfer quality, meaning preservation, and the fluency of generated outputs, we demonstrate that our method is able both to produce high-quality output while maintaining the flexibility to suggest syntactically rich stylistic edits.
Despite advances in open-domain dialogue systems, automatic evaluation of such systems is still a challenging problem. Traditional reference-based metrics such as BLEU are ineffective because there could be many valid responses for a given context that share no common words with reference responses. A recent work proposed Referenced metric and Unreferenced metric Blended Evaluation Routine (RUBER) to combine a learning-based metric, which predicts relatedness between a generated response and a given query, with reference-based metric; it showed high correlation with human judgments. In this paper, we explore using contextualized word embeddings to compute more accurate relatedness scores, thus better evaluation metrics. Experiments show that our evaluation metrics outperform RUBER, which is trained on static embeddings.
Text generation is an important Natural Language Processing task with various applications. Although several metrics have already been introduced to evaluate the text generation methods, each of them has its own shortcomings. The most widely used metrics such as BLEU only consider the quality of generated sentences and neglecting their diversity. For example, repeatedly generation of only one high quality sentence would result in a high BLEU score. On the other hand, the more recent metric introduced to evaluate the diversity of generated texts known as Self-BLEU ignores the quality of generated texts. In this paper, we propose metrics to evaluate both the quality and diversity simultaneously by approximating the distance of the learned generative model and the real data distribution. For this purpose, we first introduce a metric that approximates this distance using n-gram based measures. Then, a feature-based measure which is based on a recent highly deep model trained on a large text corpus called BERT is introduced. Finally, for oracle training mode in which the generatorʼs density can also be calculated, we propose to use the distance measures between the corresponding explicit distributions. Eventually, the most popular and recent text generation models are evaluated using both the existing and the proposed metrics and the preferences of the proposed metrics are determined.
Unilateral legal contracts, such as terms of service, play a substantial role in modern digital life. However, few read these documents before accepting the terms within, as they are too long and the language too complicated. We propose the task of summarizing such legal documents in plain English, which would enable users to have a better understanding of the terms they are accepting. We propose an initial dataset of legal text snippets paired with summaries written in plain English. We verify the quality of these summaries manually, and show that they involve heavy abstraction, compression, and simplification. Initial experiments show that unsupervised extractive summarization methods do not perform well on this task due to the level of abstraction and style differences. We conclude with a call for resource and technique development for simplification and style transfer for legal language.
Recent research has demonstrated that judicial and administrative decisions can be predicted by machine-learning models trained on prior decisions. However, to have any practical application, these predictions must be explainable, which in turn requires modeling a rich set of features. Such approaches face a roadblock if the knowledge engineering required to create these features is not scalable. We present an approach to developing a feature-rich corpus of administrative rulings about domain name disputes, an approach which leverages a small amount of manual annotation and prototypical patterns present in the case documents to automatically extend feature labels to the entire corpus. To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, we report results from systems trained on this dataset.
Contract language is repetitive (Anderson and Manns, 2017), but so is all language (Zipf, 1949). In this paper, we measure the extent to which contract language in English is repetitive compared with the language of other English language corpora. Contracts have much smaller vocabulary sizes compared with similarly sized non-contract corpora across multiple contract types, contain 1/5th as many hapax legomena, pattern differently on a log-log plot, use fewer pronouns, and contain sentences that are about 20{\%} more similar to one another than in other corpora. These suggest that the study of contracts in natural language processing controls for some linguistic phenomena and allows for more in depth study of others.
In this paper, we examined several algorithms to detect sentence boundaries in legal text. Legal text presents challenges for sentence tokenizers because of the variety of punctuations and syntax of legal text. Out-of-the-box algorithms perform poorly on legal text affecting further analysis of the text. A novel and domain-specific approach is needed to detect sentence boundaries to further analyze legal text. We present the results of our investigation in this paper.
This paper describes a dataset and baseline systems for linking paragraphs from court cases to clauses or amendments in the US Constitution. We implement a rule-based system, a linear model, and a neural architecture for matching pairs of paragraphs, taking training data from online databases in a distantly-supervised fashion. In experiments on a manually-annotated evaluation set, we find that our proposed neural system outperforms a rules-driven baseline. Qualitatively, this performance gap seems largest for abstract or indirect links between documents, which suggests that our system might be useful for answering political science and legal research questions or discovering novel links. We release the dataset along with the manually-annotated evaluation set to foster future work.
Dockets contain a wealth of information for planning a litigation strategy, but the information is locked up in semi-structured text. Manually deriving the outcomes for each party (e.g., settlement, verdict) would be very labor intensive. Having such information available for every past court case, however, would be very useful for developing a strategy because it potentially reveals tendencies and trends of judges and courts and the opposing counsel. We used Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques and deep learning methods allowing us to scale the automatic analysis of millions of US federal court dockets. The automatically extracted information is fed into a Litigation Analytics tool that is used by lawyers to plan how they approach concrete litigations.
We present a portfolio of natural legal language processing and document curation services currently under development in a collaborative European project. First, we give an overview of the project and the different use cases, while, in the main part of the article, we focus upon the 13 different processing services that are being deployed in different prototype applications using a flexible and scalable microservices architecture. Their orchestration is operationalised using a content and document curation workflow manager.
This paper conducts a comparative study on the performance of various machine learning approaches for classifying judgments into legal areas. Using a novel dataset of 6,227 Singapore Supreme Court judgments, we investigate how state-of-the-art NLP methods compare against traditional statistical models when applied to a legal corpus that comprised few but lengthy documents. All approaches tested, including topic model, word embedding, and language model-based classifiers, performed well with as little as a few hundred judgments. However, more work needs to be done to optimize state-of-the-art methods for the legal domain.
We consider the task of Extreme Multi-Label Text Classification (XMTC) in the legal domain. We release a new dataset of 57k legislative documents from EURLEX, the European Union{'}s public document database, annotated with concepts from EUROVOC, a multidisciplinary thesaurus. The dataset is substantially larger than previous EURLEX datasets and suitable for XMTC, few-shot and zero-shot learning. Experimenting with several neural classifiers, we show that BIGRUs with self-attention outperform the current multi-label state-of-the-art methods, which employ label-wise attention. Replacing CNNs with BIGRUs in label-wise attention networks leads to the best overall performance.
Naming and titling have been discussed in sociolinguistics as markers of status or solidarity. However, these functions have not been studied on a larger scale or for social media data. We collect a corpus of tweets mentioning presidents of six G20 countries by various naming forms. We show that naming variation relates to stance towards the president in a way that is suggestive of a framing effect mediated by respectfulness. This confirms sociolinguistic theory of naming and titling as markers of status.
Social scientists have recently turned to analyzing text using tools from natural language processing like word embeddings to measure concepts like ideology, bias, and affinity. However, word embeddings are difficult to use in the regression framework familiar to social scientists: embeddings are are neither identified, nor directly interpretable. I offer two advances on standard embedding models to remedy these problems. First, I develop Bayesian Word Embeddings with Automatic Relevance Determination priors, relaxing the assumption that all embedding dimensions have equal weight. Second, I apply work identifying latent variable models to anchor embeddings, identifying them, and making them interpretable and usable in a regression. I then apply this model and anchoring approach to two cases, the shift in internationalist rhetoric in the American presidents{'} inaugural addresses, and the relationship between bellicosity in American foreign policy decision-makers{'} deliberations. I find that inaugural addresses became less internationalist after 1945, which goes against the conventional wisdom, and that an increase in bellicosity is associated with an increase in hostile actions by the United States, showing that elite deliberations are not cheap talk, and helping confirm the validity of the model.
This work introduces a general method for automatically finding the locations where political events in text occurred. Using a novel set of 8,000 labeled sentences, I create a method to link automatically extracted events and locations in text. The model achieves human level performance on the annotation task and outperforms previous event geolocation systems. It can be applied to most event extraction systems across geographic contexts. I formalize the event{--}location linking task, describe the neural network model, describe the potential uses of such a system in political science, and demonstrate a workflow to answer an open question on the role of conventional military offensives in causing civilian casualties in the Syrian civil war.
Internet censorship imposes restrictions on what information can be publicized or viewed on the Internet. According to Freedom House{'}s annual Freedom on the Net report, more than half the world{'}s Internet users now live in a place where the Internet is censored or restricted. China has built the world{'}s most extensive and sophisticated online censorship system. In this paper, we describe a new corpus of censored and uncensored social media tweets from a Chinese microblogging website, Sina Weibo, collected by tracking posts that mention {`}sensitive{'} topics or authored by {`}sensitive{'} users. We use this corpus to build a neural network classifier to predict censorship. Our model performs with a 88.50{\%} accuracy using only linguistic features. We discuss these features in detail and hypothesize that they could potentially be used for censorship circumvention.
Cognitive tests have traditionally resorted to standardizing testing materials in the name of equality and because of the onerous nature of creating test items. This approach ignores participants{'} diverse language experiences that potentially significantly affect testing outcomes. Here, we seek to explain our prior finding of significant performance differences on two cognitive tests (reading span and SPiN) between clusters of participants based on their media consumption. Here, we model the language contained in these media sources using an LSTM trained on corpora of each cluster{'}s media sources to predict target words. We also model semantic similarity of test items with each cluster{'}s corpus using skip-thought vectors. We find robust, significant correlations between performance on the SPiN test and the LSTMs and skip-thought models we present here, but not the reading span test.
This paper proposes a method for identifying and studying viral moments or highlights during a political debate. Using a combined strategy of time series analysis and domain adapted word embeddings, this study provides an in-depth analysis of several key moments during the 2016 U.S. Presidential election. First, a time series outlier analysis is used to identify key moments during the debate. These moments had to result in a long-term shift in attention towards either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump (i.e., a transient change outlier or an intervention, resulting in a permanent change in the time series). To assess whether these moments also resulted in a discursive shift, two corpora are produced for each potential viral moment (a pre-viral corpus and post-viral corpus). A domain adaptation layer learns weights to combine a generic and domain-specific (DS) word embedding into a domain adapted (DA) embedding. Words are then classified using a generic encoder+ classifier framework that relies on these word embeddings as inputs. Results suggest that both Clinton and Trump were able to induce discourse-shifting viral moments, though the former is much better at producing a topically-specific discursive shift.
In group decision-making, the nuanced process of conflict and resolution that leads to consensus formation is closely tied to the quality of decisions made. Behavioral scientists rarely have rich access to process variables, though, as unstructured discussion transcripts are difficult to analyze. Here, we define ways for NLP researchers to contribute to the study of groups and teams. We introduce three tasks alongside a large new corpus of over 400,000 group debates on Wikipedia. We describe the tasks and their importance, then provide baselines showing that BERT contextualized word embeddings consistently outperform other language representations.
Online social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter are increasingly facing criticism for polarization of users. One particular aspect which has caught the attention of various critics is presence of users in echo chambers - a situation wherein users are exposed mostly to the opinions which are in sync with their own views. In this paper, we perform a sociolinguistic study by comparing the tweets of users in echo chambers with the tweets of users not in echo chambers with similar levels of polarity on a broad topic. Specifically, we carry out a comparative analysis of tweet structure, lexical choices, and focus issues, and provide possible explanations for the results.
News consumption exhibits an increasing shift towards online sources, which bring platforms such as YouTube more into focus. Thus, the distribution of politically loaded news is easier, receives more attention, but also raises the concern of forming isolated ideological communities. Understanding how such news is communicated and received is becoming increasingly important. To expand our understanding in this domain, we apply a linguistic temporal trajectory analysis to analyze sentiment patterns in English-language videos from news channels on YouTube. We examine transcripts from videos distributed through eight channels with pro-left and pro-right political leanings. Using unsupervised clustering, we identify seven different sentiment patterns in the transcripts. We found that the use of two sentiment patterns differed significantly depending on political leaning. Furthermore, we used predictive models to examine how different sentiment patterns relate to video popularity and if they differ depending on the channel{'}s political leaning. No clear relations between sentiment patterns and popularity were found. However, results indicate, that videos from pro-right news channels are more popular and that a negative sentiment further increases that popularity, when sentiments are averaged for each video.
Word embeddings trained on large-scale historical corpora can illuminate human biases and stereotypes that perpetuate social inequalities. These embeddings are often trained in separate vector space models defined according to different attributes of interest. In this paper, we introduce a single, unified dynamic embedding model that learns attribute-specific word embeddings and apply it to a novel dataset{---}talk radio shows from around the US{---}to analyze perceptions about refugees. We validate our model on a benchmark dataset and apply it to two corpora of talk radio shows averaging 117 million words produced over one month across 83 stations and 64 cities. Our findings suggest that dynamic word embeddings are capable of identifying nuanced differences in public discourse about contentious topics, suggesting their usefulness as a tool for better understanding how the public perceives and engages with different issues across time, geography, and other dimensions.
Political discourse on social media microblogs, specifically Twitter, has become an undeniable part of mainstream U.S. politics. Given the length constraint of tweets, politicians must carefully word their statements to ensure their message is understood by their intended audience. This constraint often eliminates the context of the tweet, making automatic analysis of social media political discourse a difficult task. To overcome this challenge, we propose simultaneous modeling of high-level abstractions of political language, such as political slogans and framing strategies, with abstractions of how politicians behave on Twitter. These behavioral abstractions can be further leveraged as forms of supervision in order to increase prediction accuracy, while reducing the burden of annotation. In this work, we use Probabilistic Soft Logic (PSL) to build relational models to capture the similarities in language and behavior that obfuscate political messages on Twitter. When combined, these descriptors reveal the moral foundations underlying the discourse of U.S. politicians online, \textit{across} differing governing administrations, showing how party talking points remain cohesive or change over time.
Distributed word vector spaces are considered hard to interpret which hinders the understanding of natural language processing (NLP) models. In this work, we introduce a new method to interpret arbitrary samples from a word vector space. To this end, we train a neural model to conceptualize word vectors, which means that it activates higher order concepts it recognizes in a given vector. Contrary to prior approaches, our model operates in the original vector space and is capable of learning non-linear relations between word vectors and concepts. Furthermore, we show that it produces considerably less entropic concept activation profiles than the popular cosine similarity.
Analysis of word embedding properties to inform their use in downstream NLP tasks has largely been studied by assessing nearest neighbors. However, geometric properties of the continuous feature space contribute directly to the use of embedding features in downstream models, and are largely unexplored. We consider four properties of word embedding geometry, namely: position relative to the origin, distribution of features in the vector space, global pairwise distances, and local pairwise distances. We define a sequence of transformations to generate new embeddings that expose subsets of these properties to downstream models and evaluate change in task performance to understand the contribution of each property to NLP models. We transform publicly available pretrained embeddings from three popular toolkits (word2vec, GloVe, and FastText) and evaluate on a variety of intrinsic tasks, which model linguistic information in the vector space, and extrinsic tasks, which use vectors as input to machine learning models. We find that intrinsic evaluations are highly sensitive to absolute position, while extrinsic tasks rely primarily on local similarity. Our findings suggest that future embedding models and post-processing techniques should focus primarily on similarity to nearby points in vector space.
The stability of word embedding algorithms, i.e., the consistency of the word representations they reveal when trained repeatedly on the same data set, has recently raised concerns. We here compare word embedding algorithms on three corpora of different sizes, and evaluate both their stability and accuracy. We find strong evidence that down-sampling strategies (used as part of their training procedures) are particularly influential for the stability of SVD-PPMI-type embeddings. This finding seems to explain diverging reports on their stability and lead us to a simple modification which provides superior stability as well as accuracy on par with skip-gram embedding
In this paper, we apply various embedding methods on multiword expressions to study how well they capture the nuances of non-compositional data. Our results from a pool of word-, character-, and document-level embbedings suggest that Word2vec performs the best, followed by FastText and Infersent. Moreover, we find that recently-proposed contextualised embedding models such as Bert and ELMo are not adept at handling non-compositionality in multiword expressions.
In this paper, we investigate whether multilingual neural translation models learn stronger semantic abstractions of sentences than bilingual ones. We test this hypotheses by measuring the perplexity of such models when applied to paraphrases of the source language. The intuition is that an encoder produces better representations if a decoder is capable of recognizing synonymous sentences in the same language even though the model is never trained for that task. In our setup, we add 16 different auxiliary languages to a bidirectional bilingual baseline model (English-French) and test it with in-domain and out-of-domain paraphrases in English. The results show that the perplexity is significantly reduced in each of the cases, indicating that meaning can be grounded in translation. This is further supported by a study on paraphrase generation that we also include at the end of the paper.
Downstream evaluation of pretrained word embeddings is expensive, more so for tasks where current state of the art models are very large architectures. Intrinsic evaluation using word similarity or analogy datasets, on the other hand, suffers from several disadvantages. We propose a novel intrinsic evaluation task employing large word association datasets (particularly the Small World of Words dataset). We observe correlations not just between performances on SWOW-8500 and previously proposed intrinsic tasks of word similarity prediction, but also with downstream tasks (eg. Text Classification and Natural Language Inference). Most importantly, we report better confidence intervals for scores on our word association task, with no fall in correlation with downstream performance.
In clinical assessment of people with aphasia, impairment in the ability to recall and produce words for objects (anomia) is assessed using a confrontation naming task, where a target stimulus is viewed and a corresponding label is spoken by the participant. Vector space word embedding models have had inital results in assessing semantic similarity of target-production pairs in order to automate scoring of this task; however, the resulting models are also highly dependent upon training parameters. To select an optimal family of models, we fit a beta regression model to the distribution of performance metrics on a set of 2,880 grid search models and evaluate the resultant first- and second-order effects to explore how parameterization affects model performance. Comparing to SimLex-999, we show that clinical data can be used in an evaluation task with comparable optimal parameter settings as standard NLP evaluation datasets.
Commonsense reasoning is a critical AI capability, but it is difficult to construct challenging datasets that test common sense. Recent neural question answering systems, based on large pre-trained models of language, have already achieved near-human-level performance on commonsense knowledge benchmarks. These systems do not possess human-level common sense, but are able to exploit limitations of the datasets to achieve human-level scores. We introduce the CODAH dataset, an adversarially-constructed evaluation dataset for testing common sense. CODAH forms a challenging extension to the recently-proposed SWAG dataset, which tests commonsense knowledge using sentence-completion questions that describe situations observed in video. To produce a more difficult dataset, we introduce a novel procedure for question acquisition in which workers author questions designed to target weaknesses of state-of-the-art neural question answering systems. Workers are rewarded for submissions that models fail to answer correctly both before and after fine-tuning (in cross-validation). We create 2.8k questions via this procedure and evaluate the performance of multiple state-of-the-art question answering systems on our dataset. We observe a significant gap between human performance, which is 95.3{\%}, and the performance of the best baseline accuracy of 65.3{\%} by the OpenAI GPT model.
Nearest neighbors in word embedding models are commonly observed to be semantically similar, but the relations between them can vary greatly. We investigate the extent to which word embedding models preserve syntactic interchangeability, as reflected by distances between word vectors, and the effect of hyper-parameters{---}context window size in particular. We use part of speech (POS) as a proxy for syntactic interchangeability, as generally speaking, words with the same POS are syntactically valid in the same contexts. We also investigate the relationship between interchangeability and similarity as judged by commonly-used word similarity benchmarks, and correlate the result with the performance of word embedding models on these benchmarks. Our results will inform future research and applications in the selection of word embedding model, suggesting a principle for an appropriate selection of the context window size parameter depending on the use-case.
This paper evaluates morphology-based embeddings for English and Russian languages. Despite the interest and introduction of several morphology based word embedding models in the past and acclaimed performance improvements on word similarity and language modeling tasks, in our experiments, we did not observe any stable preference over two of our baseline models - SkipGram and FastText. The performance exhibited by morphological embeddings is the average of the two baselines mentioned above.
Contextualized word embeddings derived from pre-trained language models (LMs) show significant improvements on downstream NLP tasks. Pre-training on domain-specific corpora, such as biomedical articles, further improves their performance. In this paper, we conduct probing experiments to determine what additional information is carried intrinsically by the in-domain trained contextualized embeddings. For this we use the pre-trained LMs as fixed feature extractors and restrict the downstream task models to not have additional sequence modeling layers. We compare BERT (Devlin et al. 2018), ELMo (Peters et al., 2018), BioBERT (Lee et al., 2019) and BioELMo, a biomedical version of ELMo trained on 10M PubMed abstracts. Surprisingly, while fine-tuned BioBERT is better than BioELMo in biomedical NER and NLI tasks, as a fixed feature extractor BioELMo outperforms BioBERT in our probing tasks. We use visualization and nearest neighbor analysis to show that better encoding of entity-type and relational information leads to this superiority.
This paper explores modern word embeddings in the context of sound symbolism. Using basic properties of the representations space one can construct semantic axes. A method is proposed to measure if the presence of individual sounds in a given word shifts its semantics of that word along a specific axis. It is shown that, in accordance with several experimental and statistical results, word embeddings capture symbolism for certain sounds.
In this paper, we present a novel algorithm that combines multi-context term embeddings using a neural classifier and we test this approach on the use case of corpus-based term set expansion. In addition, we present a novel and unique dataset for intrinsic evaluation of corpus-based term set expansion algorithms. We show that, over this dataset, our algorithm provides up to 5 mean average precision points over the best baseline.
Crucial information about the practice of healthcare is recorded only in free-form text, which creates an enormous opportunity for high-impact NLP. However, annotated healthcare datasets tend to be small and expensive to obtain, which raises the question of how to make maximally efficient uses of the available data. To this end, we develop an LSTM-CRF model for combining unsupervised word representations and hand-built feature representations derived from publicly available healthcare ontologies. We show that this combined model yields superior performance on five datasets of diverse kinds of healthcare text (clinical, social, scientific, commercial). Each involves the labeling of complex, multi-word spans that pick out different healthcare concepts. We also introduce a new labeled dataset for identifying the treatment relations between drugs and diseases.
The shift to electronic medical records (EMRs) has engendered research into machine learning and natural language technologies to analyze patient records, and to predict from these clinical outcomes of interest. Two observations motivate our aims here. First, unstructured notes contained within EMR often contain key information, and hence should be exploited by models. Second, while strong predictive performance is important, interpretability of models is perhaps equally so for applications in this domain. Together, these points suggest that neural models for EMR may benefit from incorporation of attention over notes, which one may hope will both yield performance gains and afford transparency in predictions. In this work we perform experiments to explore this question using two EMR corpora and four different predictive tasks, that: (i) inclusion of attention mechanisms is critical for neural encoder modules that operate over notes fields in order to yield competitive performance, but, (ii) unfortunately, while these boost predictive performance, it is decidedly less clear whether they provide meaningful support for predictions.
In the medical domain and other scientific areas, it is often important to recognize different levels of hierarchy in mentions, such as those related to specific symptoms or diseases associated with different anatomical regions. Unlike previous approaches, we build a transition-based parser that explicitly models an arbitrary number of hierarchical and nested mentions, and propose a loss that encourages correct predictions of higher-level mentions. We further introduce a set of modifier classes which introduces certain concepts that change the meaning of an entity, such as absence, or uncertainty about a given disease. Our proposed model achieves state-of-the-art results in medical entity recognition datasets, using both nested and hierarchical mentions.
Large-scale clinical data is invaluable to driving many computational scientific advances today. However, understandable concerns regarding patient privacy hinder the open dissemination of such data and give rise to suboptimal siloed research. De-identification methods attempt to address these concerns but were shown to be susceptible to adversarial attacks. In this work, we focus on the vast amounts of unstructured natural language data stored in clinical notes and propose to automatically generate synthetic clinical notes that are more amenable to sharing using generative models trained on real de-identified records. To evaluate the merit of such notes, we measure both their privacy preservation properties as well as utility in training clinical NLP models. Experiments using neural language models yield notes whose utility is close to that of the real ones in some clinical NLP tasks, yet leave ample room for future improvements.
While much data within a patient{'}s electronic health record (EHR) is coded, crucial information concerning the patient{'}s care and management remain buried in unstructured clinical notes, making it difficult and time-consuming for physicians to review during their usual clinical workflow. In this paper, we present our clinical note processing pipeline, which extends beyond basic medical natural language processing (NLP) with concept recognition and relation detection to also include components specific to EHR data, such as structured data associated with the encounter, sentence-level clinical aspects, and structures of the clinical notes. We report on the use of this pipeline in a disease-specific extractive text summarization task on clinical notes, focusing primarily on progress notes by physicians and nurse practitioners. We show how the addition of EHR-specific components to the pipeline resulted in an improvement in our overall system performance and discuss the potential impact of EHR-specific components on other higher-level clinical NLP tasks.
This paper details the development of a linguistic resource designed to improve temporal information extraction systems and to integrate aspectual values. After a brief review of recent works in temporal information extraction for the medical area, we discuss the linguistic notion of aspect and how it got a place in the NLP field. Then, we present our clinical data and describe the five-step approach adopted in this study. Finally, we represent the linguistic resource itself and explain how we elaborated it and which properties were selected for the creation of the tables.
Classic methods for clinical temporal relation extraction focus on relational candidates within a sentence. On the other hand, break-through Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) are trained on large quantities of arbitrary spans of contiguous text instead of sentences. In this study, we aim to build a sentence-agnostic framework for the task of CONTAINS temporal relation extraction. We establish a new state-of-the-art result for the task, 0.684F for in-domain (0.055-point improvement) and 0.565F for cross-domain (0.018-point improvement), by fine-tuning BERT and pre-training domain-specific BERT models on sentence-agnostic temporal relation instances with WordPiece-compatible encodings, and augmenting the labeled data with automatically generated {``}silver{''} instances.
Contextual word embedding models such as ELMo and BERT have dramatically improved performance for many natural language processing (NLP) tasks in recent months. However, these models have been minimally explored on specialty corpora, such as clinical text; moreover, in the clinical domain, no publicly-available pre-trained BERT models yet exist. In this work, we address this need by exploring and releasing BERT models for clinical text: one for generic clinical text and another for discharge summaries specifically. We demonstrate that using a domain-specific model yields performance improvements on 3/5 clinical NLP tasks, establishing a new state-of-the-art on the MedNLI dataset. We find that these domain-specific models are not as performant on 2 clinical de-identification tasks, and argue that this is a natural consequence of the differences between de-identified source text and synthetically non de-identified task text.
Knowledge discovery from text in natural language is a task usually aided by the manual construction of annotated corpora. Specifically in the clinical domain, several annotation models are used depending on the characteristics of the task to solve (e.g., named entity recognition, relation extraction, etc.). However, few general-purpose annotation models exist, that can support a broad range of knowledge extraction tasks. This paper presents an annotation model designed to capture a large portion of the semantics of natural language text. The structure of the annotation model is presented, with examples of annotated sentences and a brief description of each semantic role and relation defined. This research focuses on an application to clinical texts in the Spanish language. Nevertheless, the presented annotation model is extensible to other domains and languages. An example of annotated sentences, guidelines, and suitable configuration files for an annotation tool are also provided for the research community.
We explore the use of real-time clinical information, i.e., text messages sent between nurses and doctors regarding patient conditions in order to predict transfer to the intensive care unit(ICU). Preliminary results, in data from five hospitals, indicate that, despite being short and full of noise, text messages can augment other visit information to improve the performance of ICU transfer prediction.
Entity linking (or Normalization) is an essential task in text mining that maps the entity mentions in the medical text to standard entities in a given Knowledge Base (KB). This task is of great importance in the medical domain. It can also be used for merging different medical and clinical ontologies. In this paper, we center around the problem of disease linking or normalization. This task is executed in two phases: candidate generation and candidate scoring. In this paper, we present an approach to rank the candidate Knowledge Base entries based on their similarity with disease mention. We make use of the Triplet Network for candidate ranking. While the existing methods have used carefully generated sieves and external resources for candidate generation, we introduce a robust and portable candidate generation scheme that does not make use of the hand-crafted rules. Experimental results on the standard benchmark NCBI disease dataset demonstrate that our system outperforms the prior methods by a significant margin.
Many clinical information needs can be stated as why-questions. The answers to them represent important clinical reasoning and justification. Clinical notes are a rich source for such why-question answering (why-QA). However, there are few dedicated corpora, and little is known about the characteristics of clinical why-QA narratives. To address this gap, the study performed manual annotation of 277 sentences containing explicit why-QA cues and summarized their quantitative and qualitative properties. The contributions are: 1) sharing a seed corpus that can be used for various QA-related training purposes, 2) adding to our knowledge about the diversity and distribution of clinical why-QA contents.
Population age information is an essential characteristic of clinical trials. In this paper, we focus on extracting minimum and maximum (min/max) age values for the study samples from clinical research articles. Specifically, we investigate the use of a neural network model for question answering to address this information extraction task. The min/max age QA model is trained on the massive structured clinical study records from ClinicalTrials.gov. For each article, based on multiple min and max age values extracted from the QA model, we predict both actual min/max age values for the study samples and filter out non-factual age expressions. Our system improves the results over (i) a passage retrieval based IE system and (ii) a CRF-based system by a large margin when evaluated on an annotated dataset consisting of 50 research papers on smoking cessation.
Recently natural language processing (NLP) tools have been developed to identify and extract salient risk indicators in electronic health records (EHRs). Sentiment analysis, although widely used in non-medical areas for improving decision making, has been studied minimally in the clinical setting. In this study, we undertook, to our knowledge, the first domain adaptation of sentiment analysis to psychiatric EHRs by defining psychiatric clinical sentiment, performing an annotation project, and evaluating multiple sentence-level sentiment machine learning (ML) models. Results indicate that off-the-shelf sentiment analysis tools fail in identifying clinically positive or negative polarity, and that the definition of clinical sentiment that we provide is learnable with relatively small amounts of training data. This project is an initial step towards further refining sentiment analysis methods for clinical use. Our long-term objective is to incorporate the results of this project as part of a machine learning model that predicts inpatient readmission risk. We hope that this work will initiate a discussion concerning domain adaptation of sentiment analysis to the clinical setting.
Word embeddings are representations of words in a dense vector space. Although they are not recent phenomena in Natural Language Processing (NLP), they have gained momentum after the recent developments of neural methods and Word2Vec. Regarding their applications in medical and clinical NLP, they are invaluable resources when training in-domain named entity recognition systems, classifiers or taggers, for instance. Thus, the development of tailored word embeddings for medical NLP is of great interest. However, we identified a gap in the literature which we aim to fill in this paper: the availability of embeddings for medical NLP in Spanish, as well as a standardized form of intrinsic evaluation. Since most work has been done for English, some established datasets for intrinsic evaluation are already available. In this paper, we show the steps we employed to adapt such datasets for the first time to Spanish, of particular relevance due to the considerable volume of EHRs in this language, as well as the creation of in-domain medical word embeddings for the Spanish using the state-of-the-art FastText model. We performed intrinsic evaluation with our adapted datasets, as well as extrinsic evaluation with a named entity recognition systems using a baseline embedding of general-domain. Both experiments proved that our embeddings are suitable for use in medical NLP in the Spanish language, and are more accurate than general-domain ones.
Neural network models have shown promise in the temporal relation extraction task. In this paper, we present the attention based neural network model to extract the containment relations within sentences from clinical narratives. The attention mechanism used on top of GRU model outperforms the existing state-of-the-art neural network models on THYME corpus in intra-sentence temporal relation extraction.
Electronic health records (EHRs) are notorious for reducing the face-to-face time with patients while increasing the screen-time for clinicians leading to burnout. This is especially problematic for psychiatry care in which maintaining consistent eye-contact and non-verbal cues are just as important as the spoken words. In this ongoing work, we explore the feasibility of automatically generating psychiatric EHR case notes from digital transcripts of doctor-patient conversation using a two-step approach: (1) predicting semantic topics for segments of transcripts using supervised machine learning, and (2) generating formal text of those segments using natural language processing. Through a series of preliminary experimental results obtained through a collection of synthetic and real-life transcripts, we demonstrate the viability of this approach.
Past prescriptions constitute a central element in patient records. These are often written in an unstructured and brief form. Extracting information from such prescriptions enables the development of automated processes in the medical data mining field. This paper presents a Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) based approach to extract relevant information from prescriptions. We focus on Finnish language prescriptions and make use of Finnish language specific features. Our labeling accuracy is 95{\%}, which compares favorably to the current state-of-the-art in English language prescriptions. This, to the best of our knowledge, is the first such work for the Finnish language.
Visual question answering (VQA) models have been shown to over-rely on linguistic biases in VQA datasets, answering questions {``}blindly{''} without considering visual context. Adversarial regularization (AdvReg) aims to address this issue via an adversary sub-network that encourages the main model to learn a bias-free representation of the question. In this work, we investigate the strengths and shortcomings of AdvReg with the goal of better understanding how it affects inference in VQA models. Despite achieving a new state-of-the-art on VQA-CP, we find that AdvReg yields several undesirable side-effects, including unstable gradients and sharply reduced performance on in-domain examples. We demonstrate that gradual introduction of regularization during training helps to alleviate, but not completely solve, these issues. Through error analyses, we observe that AdvReg improves generalization to binary questions, but impairs performance on questions with heterogeneous answer distributions. Qualitatively, we also find that regularized models tend to over-rely on visual features, while ignoring important linguistic cues in the question. Our results suggest that AdvReg requires further refinement before it can be considered a viable bias mitigation technique for VQA.
This paper presents a new task, the grounding of spatio-temporal identifying descriptions in videos. Previous work suggests potential bias in existing datasets and emphasizes the need for a new data creation schema to better model linguistic structure. We introduce a new data collection scheme based on grammatical constraints for surface realization to enable us to investigate the problem of grounding spatio-temporal identifying descriptions in videos. We then propose a two-stream modular attention network that learns and grounds spatio-temporal identifying descriptions based on appearance and motion. We show that motion modules help to ground motion-related words and also help to learn in appearance modules because modular neural networks resolve task interference between modules. Finally, we propose a future challenge and a need for a robust system arising from replacing ground truth visual annotations with automatic video object detector and temporal event localization.
Image captioning applied to biomedical images can assist and accelerate the diagnosis process followed by clinicians. This article is the first survey of biomedical image captioning, discussing datasets, evaluation measures, and state of the art methods. Additionally, we suggest two baselines, a weak and a stronger one; the latter outperforms all current state of the art systems on one of the datasets.
We revisit a particular visual grounding method: the {``}Image Retrieval Using Scene Graphs{''} (IRSG) system of Johnson et al. Our experiments indicate that the system does not effectively use its learned object-relationship models. We also look closely at the IRSG dataset, as well as the widely used Visual Relationship Dataset (VRD) that is adapted from it. We find that these datasets exhibit bias that allows methods that ignore relationships to perform relatively well. We also describe several other problems with the IRSG dataset, and report on experiments using a subset of the dataset in which the biases and other problems are removed. Our studies contribute to a more general effort: that of better understanding what machine-learning methods that combine language and vision actually learn and what popular datasets actually test.
Visual storytelling is an intriguing and complex task that only recently entered the research arena. In this work, we survey relevant work to date, and conduct a thorough error analysis of three very recent approaches to visual storytelling. We categorize and provide examples of common types of errors, and identify key shortcomings in current work. Finally, we make recommendations for addressing these limitations in the future.
We study verbs in image{--}text corpora, contrasting \textit{caption} corpora, where texts are explicitly written to characterize image content, with \textit{depiction} corpora, where texts and images may stand in more general relations. Captions show a distinctively limited distribution of verbs, with strong preferences for specific tense, aspect, lexical aspect, and semantic field. These limitations, which appear in data elicited by a range of methods, restrict the utility of caption corpora to inform image retrieval, multimodal document generation, and perceptually-grounded semantic models. We suggest that these limitations reflect the discourse constraints in play when subjects write texts to accompany imagery, so we argue that future development of image{--}text corpora should work to increase the diversity of event descriptions, while looking explicitly at the different ways text and imagery can be coherently related.
There has been significant interest recently in learning multilingual word embeddings {--} in which semantically similar words across languages have similar embeddings. State-of-the-art approaches have relied on expensive labeled data, which is unavailable for low-resource languages, or have involved post-hoc unification of monolingual embeddings. In the present paper, we investigate the efficacy of multilingual embeddings learned from weakly-supervised image-text data. In particular, we propose methods for learning multilingual embeddings using image-text data, by enforcing similarity between the representations of the image and that of the text. Our experiments reveal that even without using any expensive labeled data, a bag-of-words-based embedding model trained on image-text data achieves performance comparable to the state-of-the-art on crosslingual semantic similarity tasks.
Recent work on visually grounded language learning has focused on broader applications of grounded representations, such as visual question answering and multimodal machine translation. In this paper we consider grounded word sense translation, i.e. the task of correctly translating an ambiguous source word given the corresponding textual and visual context. Our main objective is to investigate the extent to which images help improve word-level (lexical) translation quality. We do so by first studying the dataset for this task to understand the scope and challenges of the task. We then explore different data settings, image features, and ways of grounding to investigate the gain from using images in each of the combinations. We find that grounding on the image is specially beneficial in weaker unidirectional recurrent translation models. We observe that adding structured image information leads to stronger gains in lexical translation accuracy.
Participating in conversations can be difficult for people with hearing loss, especially in acoustically challenging environments. We studied the preferences the hearing impaired have for a personal conversation assistant based on automatic speech recognition (ASR) technology. We created two prototypes which were evaluated by hearing impaired test users. This paper qualitatively compares the two based on the feedback obtained from the tests. The first prototype was a proof-of-concept system running real-time ASR on a laptop. The second prototype was developed for a mobile device with the recognizer running on a separate server. In the mobile device, augmented reality (AR) was used to help the hearing impaired observe gestures and lip movements of the speaker simultaneously with the transcriptions. Several testers found the systems useful enough to use in their daily lives, with majority preferring the mobile AR version. The biggest concern of the testers was the accuracy of the transcriptions and the lack of speaker identification.
Prosodic cues in conversational speech aid listeners in discerning a message. We investigate whether acoustic cues in spoken dialogue can be used to identify the importance of individual words to the meaning of a conversation turn. Individuals who are Deaf and Hard of Hearing often rely on real-time captions in live meetings. Word error rate, a traditional metric for evaluating automatic speech recognition (ASR), fails to capture that some words are more important for a system to transcribe correctly than others. We present and evaluate neural architectures that use acoustic features for 3-class word importance prediction. Our model performs competitively against state-of-the-art text-based word-importance prediction models, and it demonstrates particular benefits when operating on imperfect ASR output.
Silent speech interfaces (SSIs) are devices that enable speech communication when audible speech is unavailable. Articulation-to-speech (ATS) synthesis is a software design in SSI that directly converts articulatory movement information into audible speech signals. Permanent magnetic articulograph (PMA) is a wireless articulator motion tracking technology that is similar to commercial, wired Electromagnetic Articulograph (EMA). PMA has shown great potential for practical SSI applications, because it is wireless. The ATS performance of PMA, however, is unknown when compared with current EMA. In this study, we compared the performance of ATS using a PMA we recently developed and a commercially available EMA (NDI Wave system). Datasets with same stimuli and size that were collected from tongue tip were used in the comparison. The experimental results indicated the performance of PMA was close to, although not as equally good as that of EMA. Furthermore, in PMA, converting the raw magnetic signals to positional signals did not significantly affect the performance of ATS, which support the future direction in PMA-based ATS can be focused on the use of positional signals to maximize the benefit of spatial analysis.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurological disease that leads to degeneration of motor neurons and, as a result, inhibits the ability of the brain to control muscle movements. Monitoring the progression of ALS is of fundamental importance due to the wide variability in disease outlook that exists across patients. This progression is typically tracked using the ALS functional rating scale - revised (ALSFRS-R), which is the current clinical assessment of a patient{'}s level of functional impairment including speech and other motor tasks. In this paper, we investigated automatic estimation of the ALSFRS-R bulbar subscore from acoustic and articulatory movement samples. Experimental results demonstrated the AFSFRS-R bulbar subscore can be predicted from speech samples, which has clinical implication for automatic monitoring of the disease progression of ALS using speech information.
Blissymbolics (Bliss) is a pictographic writing system that is used by people with communication disorders. Bliss attempts to create a writing system that makes words easier to distinguish by using pictographic symbols that encapsulate meaning rather than sound, as the English alphabet does for example. Users of Bliss rely on human interpreters to use Bliss. We created a translation system from Bliss to natural English with the hopes of decreasing the reliance on human interpreters by the Bliss community. We first discuss the basic rules of Blissymbolics. Then we point out some of the challenges associated with developing computer assisted tools for Blissymbolics. Next we talk about our ongoing work in developing a translation system, including current limitations, and future work. We conclude with a set of examples showing the current capabilities of our translation system.
Making good letter or word predictions can help accelerate the communication of users of high-tech AAC devices. This is particularly important for real-time person-to-person conversations. We investigate whether per forming speech recognition on the speaking-side of a conversation can improve language model based predictions. We compare the accuracy of three plausible microphone deployment options and the accuracy of two commercial speech recognition engines (Google and IBM Watson). We found that despite recognition word error rates of 7-16{\%}, our ensemble of N-gram and recurrent neural network language models made predictions nearly as good as when they used the reference transcripts.
Language models have broad adoption in predictive typing tasks. When the typing history contains numerous errors, as in open-vocabulary predictive typing with brain-computer interface (BCI) systems, we observe significant performance degradation in both n-gram and recurrent neural network language models trained on clean text. In evaluations of ranking character predictions, training recurrent LMs on noisy text makes them much more robust to noisy histories, even when the error model is misspecified. We also propose an effective strategy for combining evidence from multiple ambiguous histories of BCI electroencephalogram measurements.
As autonomous systems become more commonplace, we need a way to easily and naturally communicate to them our goals and collaboratively come up with a plan on how to achieve these goals. To this end, we conducted a Wizard of Oz study to gather data and investigate the way operators would collaboratively make plans via a conversational {`}planning assistant{'} for remote autonomous systems. We present here a corpus of 22 dialogs from expert operators, which can be used to train such a system. Data analysis shows that multimodality is key to successful interaction, measured both quantitatively and qualitatively via user feedback.
In this paper we describe a multilingual grounded language learning system adapted from an English-only system. This system learns the meaning of words used in crowd-sourced descriptions by grounding them in the physical representations of the objects they are describing. Our work presents a framework to compare the performance of the system when applied to a new language and to identify modifications necessary to attain equal performance, with the goal of enhancing the ability of robots to learn language from a more diverse range of people. We then demonstrate this system with Spanish, through first analyzing the performance of translated Spanish, and then extending this analysis to a new corpus of crowd-sourced Spanish language data. We find that with small modifications, the system is able to learn color, object, and shape words with comparable performance between languages.
A Natural Language Understanding (NLU) pipeline integrated with a 3D physics-based scene is a flexible way to develop and test language-based human-robot interaction, by virtualizing people, robot hardware and the target 3D environment. Here, interaction means both controlling robots using language and conversing with them about the user{'}s physical environment and her daily life. Such a virtual development framework was initially developed for the Bot Colony videogame launched on Steam in June 2014, and has been undergoing improvements since. The framework is focused of developing intuitive verbal interaction with various types of robots. Key robot functions (robot vision and object recognition, path planning and obstacle avoidance, task planning and constraints, grabbing and inverse kinematics), the human participants in the interaction, and the impact of gravity and other forces on the environment are all simulated using commercial 3D tools. The framework can be used as a robotics testbed: the results of our simulations can be compared with the output of algorithms in real robots, to validate such algorithms. A novelty of our framework is support for social interaction with robots - enabling robots to converse about people and objects in the user{'}s environment, as well as learning about human needs and everyday life topics from their owner.
Human-robot interaction often occurs in the form of instructions given from a human to a robot. For a robot to successfully follow instructions, a common representation of the world and objects in it should be shared between humans and the robot so that the instructions can be grounded. Achieving this representation can be done via learning, where both the world representation and the language grounding are learned simultaneously. However, in robotics this can be a difficult task due to the cost and scarcity of data. In this paper, we tackle the problem by separately learning the world representation of the robot and the language grounding. While this approach can address the challenges in getting sufficient data, it may give rise to inconsistencies between both learned components. Therefore, we further propose Bayesian learning to resolve such inconsistencies between the natural language grounding and a robot{'}s world representation by exploiting spatio-relational information that is implicitly present in instructions given by a human. Moreover, we demonstrate the feasibility of our approach on a scenario involving a robotic arm in the physical world.
Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) is a natural language grounding task where agents have to interpret natural language instructions in the context of visual scenes in a dynamic environment to achieve prescribed navigation goals. Successful agents must have the ability to parse natural language of varying linguistic styles, ground them in potentially unfamiliar scenes, plan and react with ambiguous environmental feedback. Generalization ability is limited by the amount of human annotated data. In particular, paired vision-language sequence data is expensive to collect. We develop a discriminator that evaluates how well an instruction explains a given path in VLN task using multi-modal alignment. Our study reveals that only a small fraction of the high-quality augmented data from Fried et al., as scored by our discriminator, is useful for training VLN agents with similar performance. We also show that a VLN agent warm-started with pre-trained components from the discriminator outperforms the benchmark success rates of 35.5 by 10{\%} relative measure.
It is important, for human-robot interaction, to endow the robot with the knowledge necessary to understand human needs and to be able to respond to them. We present a formalized and unified representation for indoor environments using an ontology devised for a route description task in which a robot must provide explanations to a person. We show that this representation can be used to choose a route to explain to a human as well as to verbalize it using a route perspective. Based on ontology, this representation has a strong possibility of evolution to adapt to many other applications. With it, we get the semantics of the environment elements while keeping a description of the known connectivity of the environment. This representation and the illustration algorithms, to find and verbalize a route, have been tested in two environments of different scales.
This paper introduces SpatialNet, a novel resource which links linguistic expressions to actual spatial configurations. SpatialNet is based on FrameNet (Ruppenhofer et al., 2016) and VigNet (Coyne et al., 2011), two resources which use frame semantics to encode lexical meaning. SpatialNet uses a deep semantic representation of spatial relations to provide a formal description of how a language expresses spatial information. This formal representation of the lexical semantics of spatial language also provides a consistent way to represent spatial meaning across multiple languages. In this paper, we describe the structure of SpatialNet, with examples from English and German. We also show how SpatialNet can be combined with other existing NLP tools to create a text-to-scene system for a language.
Understanding and generating spatial descriptions requires knowledge about what objects are related, their functional interactions, and where the objects are geometrically located. Different spatial relations have different functional and geometric bias. The wide usage of neural language models in different areas including generation of image description motivates the study of what kind of knowledge is encoded in neural language models about individual spatial relations. With the premise that the functional bias of relations is expressed in their word distributions, we construct multi-word distributional vector representations and show that these representations perform well on intrinsic semantic reasoning tasks, thus confirming our premise. A comparison of our vector representations to human semantic judgments indicates that different bias (functional or geometric) is captured in different data collection tasks which suggests that the contribution of the two meaning modalities is dynamic, related to the context of the task.
Stack Long Short-Term Memory (StackLSTM) is useful for various applications such as parsing and string-to-tree neural machine translation, but it is also known to be notoriously difficult to parallelize for GPU training due to the fact that the computations are dependent on discrete operations. In this paper, we tackle this problem by utilizing state access patterns of StackLSTM to homogenize computations with regard to different discrete operations. Our parsing experiments show that the method scales up almost linearly with increasing batch size, and our parallelized PyTorch implementation trains significantly faster compared to the Dynet C++ implementation.
Procedural text, which describes entities and their interactions as they undergo some process, depicts entities in a uniquely nuanced way. First, each entity may have some observable discrete attributes, such as its state or location; modeling these involves imposing global structure and enforcing consistency. Second, an entity may have properties which are not made explicit but can be effectively induced and tracked by neural networks. In this paper, we propose a structured neural architecture that reflects this dual nature of entity evolution. The model tracks each entity recurrently, updating its hidden continuous representation at each step to contain relevant state information. The global discrete state structure is explicitly modelled with a neural CRF over the changing hidden representation of the entity. This CRF can explicitly capture constraints on entity states over time, enforcing that, for example, an entity cannot move to a location after it is destroyed. We evaluate the performance of our proposed model on QA tasks over process paragraphs in the ProPara dataset and find that our model achieves state-of-the-art results.
We propose structured encoding as a novel approach to learning representations for relations and events in neural structured prediction. Our approach explicitly leverages the structure of available relation and event metadata to generate these representations, which are parameterized by both the attribute structure of the metadata as well as the learned representation of the arguments of the relations and events. We consider affine, biaffine, and recurrent operators for building hierarchical representations and modelling underlying features. We apply our approach to the second-order structured prediction task studied in the 2016/2017 Belief and Sentiment analysis evaluations (BeSt): given a document and its entities, relations, and events (including metadata and mentions), determine the sentiment of each entity towards every relation and event in the document. Without task-specific knowledge sources or domain engineering, we significantly improve over systems and baselines that neglect the available metadata or its hierarchical structure. We observe across-the-board improvements on the BeSt 2016/2017 sentiment analysis task of at least 2.3 (absolute) and 10.6{\%} (relative) F-measure over the previous state-of-the-art.
We propose a lightly-supervised approach for information extraction, in particular named entity classification, which combines the benefits of traditional bootstrapping, i.e., use of limited annotations and interpretability of extraction patterns, with the robust learning approaches proposed in representation learning. Our algorithm iteratively learns custom embeddings for both the multi-word entities to be extracted and the patterns that match them from a few example entities per category. We demonstrate that this representation-based approach outperforms three other state-of-the-art bootstrapping approaches on two datasets: CoNLL-2003 and OntoNotes. Additionally, using these embeddings, our approach outputs a globally-interpretable model consisting of a decision list, by ranking patterns based on their proximity to the average entity embedding in a given class. We show that this interpretable model performs close to our complete bootstrapping model, proving that representation learning can be used to produce interpretable models with small loss in performance. This decision list can be edited by human experts to mitigate some of that loss and in some cases outperform the original model.
Generating a large amount of training data for information extraction (IE) is either costly (if annotations are created manually), or runs the risk of introducing noisy instances (if distant supervision is used). On the other hand, semi-supervised learning (SSL) is a cost-efficient solution to combat lack of training data. In this paper, we adapt Mean Teacher (Tarvainen and Valpola, 2017), a denoising SSL framework to extract semantic relations between pairs of entities. We explore the sweet spot of amount of supervision required for good performance on this binary relation extraction task. Additionally, different syntax representations are incorporated into our models to enhance the learned representation of sentences. We evaluate our approach on the Google-IISc Distant Supervision (GDS) dataset, which removes test data noise present in all previous distance supervision datasets, which makes it a reliable evaluation benchmark (Jat et al., 2017). Our results show that the SSL Mean Teacher approach nears the performance of fully-supervised approaches even with only 10{\%} of the labeled corpus. Further, the syntax-aware model outperforms other syntax-free approaches across all levels of supervision.
The conversion of romanized texts back to the native scripts is a challenging task because of the inconsistent romanization conventions and non-standard language use. This problem is compounded by code-mixing, i.e., using words from more than one language within the same discourse. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for handling these two problems together in a single system. Our approach combines three components: language identification, back-transliteration, and sequence prediction. The results of our experiments on Bengali and Hindi datasets establish the state of the art for the task of deromanization of code-mixed texts.
We explore how well a sequence labeling approach, namely, recurrent neural network, is suited for the task of resource-poor and POS tagging free word stress detection in the Russian, Ukranian, Belarusian languages. We present new datasets, annotated with the word stress, for the three languages and compare several RNN models trained on three languages and explore possible applications of the transfer learning for the task. We show that it is possible to train a model in a cross-lingual setting and that using additional languages improves the quality of the results.
This paper evaluates global-scale dialect identification for 14 national varieties of English on both web-crawled data and Twitter data. The paper makes three main contributions: (i) introducing data-driven language mapping as a method for selecting the inventory of national varieties to include in the task; (ii) producing a large and dynamic set of syntactic features using grammar induction rather than focusing on a few hand-selected features such as function words; and (iii) comparing models across both web corpora and social media corpora in order to measure the robustness of syntactic variation across registers.
This paper describes the work done by team tearsofjoy participating in the VarDial 2019 Evaluation Campaign. We developed two systems based on Support Vector Machines: SVM with a flat combination of features and SVM ensembles. We participated in all language/dialect identification tasks, as well as the Moldavian vs. Romanian cross-dialect topic identification (MRC) task. Our team achieved first place in German Dialect identification (GDI) and MRC subtasks 2 and 3, second place in the simplified variant of Discriminating between Mainland and Taiwan variation of Mandarin Chinese (DMT) as well as Cuneiform Language Identification (CLI), and third and fifth place in DMT traditional and MRC subtask 1 respectively. In most cases, the SVM with a flat combination of features performed better than SVM ensembles. Besides describing the systems and the results obtained by them, we provide a tentative comparison between the feature combination methods, and present additional experiments with a method of adaptation to the test set, which may indicate potential pitfalls with some of the data sets.
This paper deals with the automatic identification of literate and oral discourse in German texts. A range of linguistic features is selected and their role in distinguishing between literate- and oral-oriented registers is investigated, using a decision-tree classifier. It turns out that all of the investigated features are related in some way to oral conceptuality. Especially simple measures of complexity (average sentence and word length) are prominent indicators of oral and literate discourse. In addition, features of reference and deixis (realized by different types of pronouns) also prove to be very useful in determining the degree of orality of different registers.
This work explores neural machine translation between Myanmar (Burmese) and Rakhine (Arakanese). Rakhine is a language closely related to Myanmar, often considered a dialect. We implemented three prominent neural machine translation (NMT) systems: recurrent neural networks (RNN), transformer, and convolutional neural networks (CNN). The systems were evaluated on a Myanmar-Rakhine parallel text corpus developed by us. In addition, two types of word segmentation schemes for word embeddings were studied: Word-BPE and Syllable-BPE segmentation. Our experimental results clearly show that the highest quality NMT and statistical machine translation (SMT) performances are obtained with Syllable-BPE segmentation for both types of translations. If we focus on NMT, we find that the transformer with Word-BPE segmentation outperforms CNN and RNN for both Myanmar-Rakhine and Rakhine-Myanmar translation. However, CNN with Syllable-BPE segmentation obtains a higher score than the RNN and transformer.
Linguistic Code Switching (CS) is a phenomenon that occurs when multilingual speakers alternate between two or more languages/dialects within a single conversation. Processing CS data is especially challenging in intra-sentential data given state-of-the-art monolingual NLP technologies since such technologies are geared toward the processing of one language at a time. In this paper, we address the problem of Part-of-Speech tagging (POS) in the context of linguistic code switching (CS). We explore leveraging multiple neural network architectures to measure the impact of different pre-trained embeddings methods on POS tagging CS data. We investigate the landscape in four CS language pairs, Spanish-English, Hindi-English, Modern Standard Arabic- Egyptian Arabic dialect (MSA-EGY), and Modern Standard Arabic- Levantine Arabic dialect (MSA-LEV). Our results show that multilingual embedding (e.g., MSA-EGY and MSA-LEV) helps closely related languages (EGY/LEV) but adds noise to the languages that are distant (SPA/HIN). Finally, we show that our proposed models outperform state-of-the-art CS taggers for MSA-EGY language pair.
This paper presents a new approach to disentangling inter-dialectal and intra-dialectal relationships within one such group, the Indo-Aryan subgroup of Indo-European. We draw upon admixture models and deep generative models to tease apart historic language contact and language-specific behavior in the overall patterns of sound change displayed by Indo-Aryan languages. We show that a {``}deep{''} model of Indo-Aryan dialectology sheds some light on questions regarding inter-relationships among the Indo-Aryan languages, and performs better than a {``}shallow{''} model in terms of certain qualities of the posterior distribution (e.g., entropy of posterior distributions), and outline future pathways for model development.
This article presents the model that generated the runs submitted by the R2I{\_}LIS team to the VarDial2019 evaluation campaign, more particularly, to the binary classification by dialect sub-task of the Moldavian vs. Romanian Cross-dialect Topic identification (MRC) task. The team proposed a majority vote-based model, between five supervised machine learning models, trained on forty manually-crafted features. One of the three submitted runs was ranked second at the binary classification sub-task, with a performance of 0.7963, in terms of macro-F1 measure. The other two runs were ranked third and fourth, respectively.
This paper describes the IUCL system at VarDial 2019 evaluation campaign for the task of discriminating between Mainland and Taiwan variation of mandarin Chinese. We first build several base classifiers, including a Naive Bayes classifier with word n-gram as features, SVMs with both character and syntactic features, and neural networks with pre-trained character/word embeddings. Then we adopt ensemble methods to combine output from base classifiers to make final predictions. Our ensemble models achieve the highest F1 score (0.893) in simplified Chinese track and the second highest (0.901) in traditional Chinese track. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the ensemble methods.
This paper describes our models for the Moldavian vs. Romanian Cross-Topic Identification (MRC) evaluation campaign, part of the VarDial 2019 workshop. We focus on the three subtasks for MRC: binary classification between the Moldavian (MD) and the Romanian (RO) dialects and two cross-dialect multi-class classification between six news topics, MD to RO and RO to MD. We propose several deep learning models based on long short-term memory cells, Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Unit (BiGRU) and Hierarchical Attention Networks (HAN). We also employ three word embedding models to represent the text as a low dimensional vector. Our official submission includes two runs of the BiGRU and HAN models for each of the three subtasks. The best submitted model obtained the following macro-averaged F1 scores: 0.708 for subtask 1, 0.481 for subtask 2 and 0.480 for the last one. Due to a read error caused by the quoting behaviour over the test file, our final submissions contained a smaller number of items than expected. More than 50{\%} of the submission files were corrupted. Thus, we also present the results obtained with the corrected labels for which the HAN model achieves the following results: 0.930 for subtask 1, 0.590 for subtask 2 and 0.687 for the third one.
Identification of the languages written using cuneiform symbols is a difficult task due to the lack of resources and the problem of tokenization. The Cuneiform Language Identification task in VarDial 2019 addresses the problem of identifying seven languages and dialects written in cuneiform; Sumerian and six dialects of Akkadian language: Old Babylonian, Middle Babylonian Peripheral, Standard Babylonian, Neo-Babylonian, Late Babylonian, and Neo-Assyrian. This paper describes the approaches taken by SharifCL team to this problem in VarDial 2019. The best result belongs to an ensemble of Support Vector Machines and a naive Bayes classifier, both working on character-level features, with macro-averaged F1-score of 72.10{\%}.
We describe our approaches for the German Dialect Identification (GDI) and the Cuneiform Language Identification (CLI) tasks at the VarDial Evaluation Campaign 2019. The goal was to identify dialects of Swiss German in GDI and Sumerian and Akkadian in CLI. In GDI, the system should distinguish four dialects from the German-speaking part of Switzerland. Our system for GDI achieved third place out of 6 teams, with a macro averaged F-1 of 74.6{\%}. In CLI, the system should distinguish seven languages written in cuneiform script. Our system achieved third place out of 8 teams, with a macro averaged F-1 of 74.7{\%}.
This paper presents the solution proposed by DTeam in the VarDial 2019 Evaluation Campaign for the Moldavian vs. Romanian cross-topic identification task. The solution proposed is a Support Vector Machines (SVM) ensemble composed of a two character-level neural networks. The first network is a skip-gram classification model formed of an embedding layer, three convolutional layers and two fully-connected layers. The second network has a similar architecture, but is trained using the triplet loss function.
When translating diglossic languages such as Arabic, situations may arise where we would like to translate a text but do not know which dialect it is. A traditional approach to this problem is to design dialect identification systems and dialect-specific machine translation systems. However, under the recent paradigm of neural machine translation, shared multi-dialectal systems have become a natural alternative. Here we explore under which conditions it is beneficial to perform dialect identification for Arabic neural machine translation versus using a general system for all dialects.
We tackle the important task of part-of-speech tagging using a neural model in the zero-resource scenario, where we have no access to gold-standard POS training data. We compare this scenario with the low-resource scenario, where we have access to a small amount of gold-standard POS training data. Our experiments focus on Ukrainian as a representative of under-resourced languages. Russian is highly related to Ukrainian, so we exploit gold-standard Russian POS tags. We consider four techniques to perform Ukrainian POS tagging: zero-shot tagging and cross-lingual annotation projection (for the zero-resource scenario), and compare these with self-training and multilingual learning (for the low-resource scenario). We find that cross-lingual annotation projection works particularly well in the zero-resource scenario.
Social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, and other microblogging forums have emerged as a platform for people to express their opinions and views on different issues and events. It is often observed that people tend to take a stance; in favor, against or neutral towards a particular topic. The task of assessing the stance taken by the individual became significantly important with the emergence in the usage of online social platforms. Automatic stance detection system understands the user{'}s stance by analyzing the standalone texts against a target entity. Due to the limited contextual information a single sentence provides, it is challenging to solve this task effectively. In this paper, we introduce a Multi-Task Learning (MTL) based deep neural network architecture for automatically detecting stance present in the code-mixed corpus. We apply our approach on Hindi-English code-mixed corpus against the target entity - {``}Demonetisation.{''} Our best model achieved the result with a stance prediction accuracy of 63.2{\%} which is a 4.5{\%} overall accuracy improvement compared to the current supervised classification systems developed using the benchmark dataset for code-mixed data stance detection.
We propose an attention-based neural network approach to detect abusive speech in online social networks. Our approach enables more effective modeling of context and the semantic relationships between words. We also empirically evaluate the value of text pre-processing techniques in addressing the challenge of out-of-vocabulary words in toxic content. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on the Wikipedia Talk page datasets, showing improved predictive power over the previous state-of-the-art.
Adjective phrases like {``}a little bit surprised{''}, {``}completely shocked{''}, or {``}not stunned at all{''} are not handled properly by current state-of-the-art emotion classification and intensity prediction systems. Based on this finding, we analyze differences between embeddings used by these systems in regard to their capability of handling such cases and argue that intensifiers in context of emotion words need special treatment, as is established for sentiment polarity classification, but not for more fine-grained emotion prediction. To resolve this issue, we analyze different aspects of a post-processing pipeline which enriches the word representations of such phrases. This includes expansion of semantic spaces at the phrase level and sub-word level followed by retrofitting to emotion lexicons. We evaluate the impact of these steps with {`}A La Carte and Bag-of-Substrings extensions based on pretrained GloVe,Word2vec, and fastText embeddings against a crowd-sourced corpus of intensity annotations for tweets containing our focus phrases. We show that the fastText-based models do not gain from handling these specific phrases under inspection. For Word2vec embeddings, we show that our post-processing pipeline improves the results by up to 8{\%} on a novel dataset densly populated with intensifiers while it does not decrease the performance on the established EmoInt dataset.
We investigate the relationship between basic principles of human morality and the expression of opinions in user-generated text data. We assume that people{'}s backgrounds, culture, and values are associated with their perceptions and expressions of everyday topics, and that people{'}s language use reflects these perceptions. While personal values and social effects are abstract and complex concepts, they have practical implications and are relevant for a wide range of NLP applications. To extract human values (in this paper, morality) and measure social effects (morality and stance), we empirically evaluate the usage of a morality lexicon that we expanded via a quality controlled, human in the loop process. As a result, we enhanced the Moral Foundations Dictionary in size (from 324 to 4,636 syntactically disambiguated entries) and scope. We used both lexica for feature-based and deep learning classification (SVM, RF, and LSTM) to test their usefulness for measuring social effects. We find that the enhancement of the original lexicon led to measurable improvements in prediction accuracy for the selected NLP tasks.
Twitter customer service interactions have recently emerged as an effective platform to respond and engage with customers. In this work, we explore the role of {''}negation{''} in customer service interactions, particularly applied to sentiment analysis. We define rules to identify true negation cues and scope more suited to conversational data than existing general review data. Using semantic knowledge and syntactic structure from constituency parse trees, we propose an algorithm for scope detection that performs comparable to state of the art BiLSTM. We further investigate the results of negation scope detection for the sentiment prediction task on customer service conversation data using both a traditional SVM and a Neural Network. We propose an antonym dictionary based method for negation applied to a combination CNN-LSTM for sentiment analysis. Experimental results show that the antonym-based method outperforms the previous lexicon-based and Neural Network methods.
We propose bilingual word embeddings based on word2vec and fastText models (CBOW and Skip-gram) to address the problem of Humor detection in Hindi-English code-mixed tweets in combination with deep learning architectures. We focus on deep learning approaches which are not widely used on code-mixed data and analyzed their performance by experimenting with three different neural network models. We propose convolution neural network (CNN) and bidirectional long-short term memory (biLSTM) (with and without Attention) models which take the generated bilingual embeddings as input. We make use of Twitter data to create bilingual word embeddings. All our proposed architectures outperform the state-of-the-art results, and Attention-based bidirectional LSTM model achieved an accuracy of 73.6{\%} which is an increment of more than 4{\%} compared to the current state-of-the-art results.
In 2014, a chatty but immobile robot called hitchBOT set out to hitchhike across Canada. It similarly made its way across Germany and the Netherlands, and had begun a trip across the USA when it was destroyed by vandals. In this work, we analyze the emotions and sentiments associated with words in tweets posted before and after hitchBOT{'}s destruction to answer two questions: Were there any differences in the emotions expressed across the different countries visited by hitchBOT? And how did the public react to the demise of hitchBOT? Our analyses indicate that while there were few cross-cultural differences in sentiment towards hitchBOT, there was a significant negative emotional reaction to its destruction, suggesting that people had formed an emotional connection with hitchBOT and perceived its destruction as morally wrong. We discuss potential implications of anthropomorphism and emotional attachment to robots from the perspective of robot ethics.
Research in sarcasm detection spans almost a decade. However a particular form of sarcasm remains unexplored: sarcasm expressed through numbers, which we estimate, forms about 11{\%} of the sarcastic tweets in our dataset. The sentence {`}Love waking up at 3 am{'} is sarcastic because of the number. In this paper, we focus on detecting sarcasm in tweets arising out of numbers. Initially, to get an insight into the problem, we implement a rule-based and a statistical machine learning-based (ML) classifier. The rule-based classifier conveys the crux of the numerical sarcasm problem, namely, incongruity arising out of numbers. The statistical ML classifier uncovers the indicators i.e., features of such sarcasm. The actual system in place, however, are two deep learning (DL) models, CNN and attention network that obtains an F-score of 0.93 and 0.91 on our dataset of tweets containing numbers. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first line of research investigating the phenomenon of sarcasm arising out of numbers, culminating in a detector thereof.
Wide and universal changes in the web content due to the growth of web 2 applications increase the importance of user-generated content on the web. Therefore, the related research areas such as sentiment analysis, opinion mining and subjectivity detection receives much attention from the research community. Due to the diverse languages that web-users use to express their opinions and sentiments, research areas like subjectivity detection should present methods which are practicable on all languages. An important prerequisite to effectively achieve this aim is considering the limitations in resource-lean languages. In this paper, cross-lingual subjectivity detection on resource lean languages is investigated using two different approaches: a language-model based and a learning-to-rank approach. Experimental results show the impact of different factors on the performance of subjectivity detection methods using English resources to detect the subjectivity score of Persian documents. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed learning-to-rank method outperforms the baseline method in ranking documents based on their subjectivity degree.
In this work, we investigate the impact of incorporating emotion classes on the task of predicting emojis from Twitter texts. More specifically, we first show that there is a correlation between the emotion expressed in the text and the emoji choice of Twitter users. Based on this insight we propose a few simple methods to incorporate emotion information in traditional classifiers. Through automatic metrics, human evaluation, and error analysis, we show that the improvement obtained by incorporating emotion is significant and correlate better with human preferences compared to the baseline models. Through the human ratings that we obtained, we also argue for preference metric to better evaluate the usefulness of an emoji prediction system.
Much work in contemporary computational semantics follows the distributional hypothesis (DH), which is understood as an approach to semantics according to which the meaning of a word is a function of its distribution over contexts which is represented as vectors (word embeddings) within a multi-dimensional semantic space. In practice, use is identified with occurrence in text corpora, though there are some efforts to use corpora containing multi-modal information. In this paper we argue that the distributional hypothesis is intrinsically misguided as a self-supporting basis for semantics, as Firth was entirely aware. We mention philosophical arguments concerning the lack of normativity within DH data. Furthermore, we point out the shortcomings of DH as a model of learning, by discussing a variety of linguistic classes that cannot be learnt on a distributional basis, including indexicals, proper names, and wh-phrases. Instead of pursuing DH, we sketch an account of the problematic learning cases by integrating a rich, Firthian notion of dialogue context with interactive learning in signalling games backed by in probabilistic Type Theory with Records. We conclude that the success of the DH in computational semantics rests on a post hoc effect: DS presupposes a referential semantics on the basis of which utterances can be produced, comprehended and analysed in the first place.
Generating {``}commonsense{'}{'} knowledge for intelligent understanding and reasoning is a difficult, long-standing problem, whose scale challenges the capacity of any approach driven primarily by human input. Furthermore, approaches based on mining statistically repetitive patterns fail to produce the rich representations humans acquire, and fall far short of human efficiency in inducing knowledge from text. The idea of our approach to this problem is to provide a learning system with a {``}head start{''} consisting of a semantic parser, some basic ontological knowledge, and most importantly, a small set of very general schemas about the kinds of patterns of events (often purposive, causal, or socially conventional) that even a one- or two-year-old could reasonably be presumed to possess. We match these initial schemas to simple children{'}s stories, obtaining concrete instances, and combining and abstracting these into new candidate schemas. Both the initial and generated schemas are specified using a rich, expressive logical form. While modern approaches to schema reasoning often only use slot-and-filler structures, this logical form allows us to specify complex relations and constraints over the slots. Though formal, the representations are language-like, and as such readily relatable to NL text. The agents, objects, and other roles in the schemas are represented by typed variables, and the event variables can be related through partial temporal ordering and causal relations. To match natural language stories with existing schemas, we first parse the stories into an underspecified variant of the logical form used by the schemas, which is suitable for most concrete stories. We include a walkthrough of matching a children{'}s story to these schemas and generating inferences from these matches.
Dependent Type Semantics (DTS; Bekki and Mineshima, 2017) is a proof-theoretic compositional dynamic semantics based on Dependent Type Theory. The semantic representations for declarative sentences in DTS are types, based on the propositions-as-types paradigm. While type-theoretic semantics for natural language based on dependent type theory has been developed by many authors, how to assign semantic representations to interrogative sentences has been a non-trivial problem. In this study, we show how to provide the semantics of interrogative sentences in DTS. The basic idea is to assign the same type to both declarative sentences and interrogative sentences, partly building on the recent proposal in Inquisitive Semantics. We use Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) as a syntactic component of DTS and implement our compositional semantics for interrogative sentences using ccg2lambda, a semantic parsing platform based on CCG. Based on the idea that the relationship between questions and answers can be formulated as the task of Recognizing Textual Entailment (RTE), we implement our inference system using proof assistant Coq and show that our system can deal with a wide range of question-answer relationships discussed in the formal semantics literature, including those with polar questions, alternative questions, and wh-questions.
We outline a hyperintensional situation semantics in which hyperintensionality is modelled as a {`}side effect{'}, as this term has been understood in natural language semantics and in functional programming. We use monads from category theory in order to {`}upgrade{'} an ordinary intensional semantics to a possible hyperintensional counterpart.
Koji Mineshima Ochanomizu University mineshima.koji@ocha.ac.jp Daisuke Bekki Ochanomizu University bekki@is.ocha.ac.jp  Abstract The scope parallelism in the Geach sentence (Every boy loves, and every girl detests, some saxophonist) and the related parallel interpretation requirement in pronominal binding is a pervasive phenomenon found across different types of coordination and ellipsis phenomena. Previous accounts all resort to additional constraints of some sort that restrict the otherwise ﬂexible syntax-semantics interface to avoid overgeneration. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to this long-standing problem. We show that, by taking a proof-theoretic perspective on natural language semantics and by viewing the ambiguity resolution for pronouns and indeﬁnites as underspeciﬁcation resolution that invokes extra proof search, a conceptually natural solution emerges for the problem of interpretive parallelism. The analysis is cast in Dependent Type Semantics, with Hybrid Type-Logical Categorial Grammar as the syntax-semantics interface backbone. For empirical illustration, we show how the proposed approach correctly accounts for the classical Geach paradigm and its pronominal variant. 
In this paper, we investigate the possibility of translating a fragment of natural deduction system (NDS) for natural language semantics into modern type theory (MTT), originally suggested by Luo (2014). Our main goal will be to examine and translate the basic rules of NDS (namely, meta-rules, structural rules, identity rules, noun rules and rules for intersective and subsective adjectives) to MTT. Additionally, we will also consider some of their general features. 
The induced action alternation and the caused-motion construction are two phenomena that allow English verbs to be interpreted as motion-causing events. This is possible when a verb is used with a direct object and a directional phrase, even when the verb does not lexically signify causativity or motion, as in “Sylvia laughed Mary off the stage”. While participation in the induced action alternation is a lexical property of certain verbs, the caused-motion construction is not anchored in the lexicon. We model both phenomena with XMG-2 and use the TuLiPA parser to create compositional semantic frames for example sentences. We show how such frames represent the key differences between these two phenomena at the syntax-semantics interface, and how TAG can be used to derive distinct analyses for them. 
Role and Reference Grammar (RRG) (Foley and Van Valin, 1984; Van Valin and LaPolla, 1997; Van Valin, 2005) is typologically general, semantically-driven syntactic framework. A major focus of RRG is a ﬁne-grained typology of form-to-meaning mapping, emphasizing the syntactic and semantic structure of complex event descriptions. I introduce a constraint-based typed feature structure variant of RRG which exploits RRG’s semantically-motivated syntactic backbone: the Layered Structure of the Clause (LSC). Each layer in the LSC is represented as a subtype of sign, and the unique combination of syntactic and semantic properties possessed by each layer is captured by a set of constraints on the appropriate sign subtype. Sentences are incrementally built up from predicates (represented semantically as event frames) to propositions using constructions to pass and combine information through the different layers (and juncture types) in the LSC. An English fragment of this constraint-based RRG is implemented using the Attribute Logic Engine (Carpenter, 1992). 
The paper provides a technique for algorithmic syntax-semantics interface in computational grammar with underspeciﬁed semantic representations of human language. The technique is introduced for expressions that contain NP quantiﬁers, by using computational, generalised ConstraintBased Lexicalised Grammar (GCBLG) that represents major, common syntactic characteristics of a variety of approaches to formal grammar and natural language processing (NLP). Our solution can be realised by any of the grammar formalisms in the CBLG class, e.g., Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar (HPSG), Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG), Categorial Grammar (CG). The type-theory of acyclic recursion Lλar, provides facility for representing major semantic ambiguities, as underspeciﬁcation, at the object level of the formal language of Lλar, without recourse of meta-language variables. Speciﬁc semantic representations can be obtained by instantiations of underspeciﬁed Lλarterms, in context. These are subject to constraints provided by a newly introduced feature-structure description of syntax-semantics interface in GCBLG. 
We describe a representation for modeling meaning of natural language constructs that is closely related to fuzzy sets. Same as fuzzy sets, it allows to express quantitative relationships between different concepts, and is designed to support vagueness and imprecision common to natural language. We compare the representations using several examples, and argue that in some cases the proposed representation may be a good alternative to the fuzzy set based representation, and that it may also be easier to learn from data. 
 Abstract We present ImageTTR, an extension to the Python implementation of Type Theory with Records (pyTTR) which connects formal record type representation with image classiﬁers implemented as deep neural networks. The Type Theory with Records framework serves as a knowledge representation system for natural language the representations of which are grounded in perceptual information of neural networks. We demonstrate the beneﬁts of this symbolic and data-driven hybrid approach on the task of visual question answering. 
To model conditionals in a way that reﬂects their acceptability, we must include some means of making judgements about whether antecedent and consequent are meaningfully related or not. Enthymemes are non-logical arguments which do not hold up by themselves, but are acceptable through their relation to a topos, an already-known general principle or pattern for reasoning. This paper uses enthymemes and topoi as a way to model the world-knowledge behind these judgements. In doing so, it provides a reformalisation (in TTR) of enthymemes and topoi as networks rather than functions, and information state update rules for conditionals. 
Commonsense knowledge relations are crucial for advanced NLU tasks. We examine the learnability of such relations as represented in ConceptNet, taking into account their specific properties, which can make relation classification difficult: a given concept pair can be linked by multiple relation types, and relations can have multi-word arguments of diverse semantic types. We explore a neural open world multi-label classification approach that focuses on the evaluation of classification accuracy for individual relations. Based on an in-depth study of the specific properties of the ConceptNet resource, we investigate the impact of different relation representations and model variations. Our analysis reveals that the complexity of argument types and relation ambiguity are the most important challenges to address. We design a customized evaluation method to address the incompleteness of the resource that can be expanded in future work.
Semantic similarity between collocations, along with words similarity, is one of the main issues of NLP, which must be addressed, in particular, in order to facilitate the automatic thesaurus generation. In the paper, we consider the logical-linguistic model that allows defining the relation of semantic similarity of collocations via the logical-algebraic equations. We provide the model for English, Ukrainian and Russian text corpora. The implementation for each language is slightly different in the equations of the finite predicates algebra and used linguistic resources. As a dataset for our experiment, we use 5801 pairs of sentences of Microsoft Research Paraphrase Corpus for English and more than 1 000 texts of scientific papers for Russian and Ukrainian.
For the analysis of contract texts, validated model texts, such as model clauses, can be used to identify reused contract clauses. This paper investigates how to calculate the similarity between titles of model clauses and headings extracted from contracts, and which similarity measure is most suitable for this. For the calculation of the similarities between title pairs we tested various variants of string similarity and token based similarity. We also compare two more semantic similarity measures based on word embeddings using pretrained embeddings and word embeddings trained on contract texts. The identification of the model clause title can be used as a starting point for the mapping of clauses found in contracts to verified clauses.
We present a very simple, unsupervised method for the pairwise matching of documents from heterogeneous collections. We demonstrate our method with the Concept-Project matching task, which is a binary classification task involving pairs of documents from heterogeneous collections. Although our method only employs standard resources without any domain- or task-specific modifications, it clearly outperforms the more complex system of the original authors. In addition, our method is transparent, because it provides explicit information about how a similarity score was computed, and efficient, because it is based on the aggregation of (pre-computable) word-level similarities.
Under the standard approach to counterfactuals, to determine the meaning of a counterfactual sentence, we consider the {``}closest{''} possible world(s) where the antecedent is true, and evaluate the consequent. Building on the standard approach, some researchers have found that the set of worlds to be considered is dependent on context; it evolves with the discourse. Others have focused on how to define the {``}distance{''} between possible worlds, using ideas from causal modeling. This paper integrates the two ideas. We present a semantics for counterfactuals that uses a distance measure based on causal laws, that can also change over time. We show how our semantics can be implemented in the Haskell programming language.
In this paper, I will describe a system that was developed for the task of Visual Question Answering. The system uses the rich type universe of Type Theory with Records (TTR) to model both the utterances about the image, the image itself and classifications made related to the two. At its most basic, the decision of whether any given predicate can be assigned to an object in the image is delegated to a CNN. Consequently, images can be judged as evidence for propositions. The end result is a model whose application of perceptual classifiers to a given image is guided by the accompanying utterance.
The challenge of automatically describing images and videos has stimulated much research in Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing. In order to test the semantic abilities of new algorithms, we need reliable and objective ways of measuring progress. We show that standard evaluation measures do not take into account the semantic richness of a description, and give the impression that sparse machine descriptions outperform rich human descriptions. We introduce and test a new measure of semantic ability based on relative lexical diversity. We show how our measure can work alongside existing measures to achieve state of the art correlation with human judgement of quality. We also introduce a new dataset: Rich-Sparse Descriptions, which provides 2K human and machine descriptions to stimulate interest into the semantic evaluation of machine descriptions.
We present and discuss a couple of approaches, including different types of projections, and some examples, discussing the use of fuzzy sets for modeling meaning of certain types of language constructs. We are mostly focusing on words other than adjectives and linguistic hedges as these categories are the most studied from before. We discuss logical and linguistic interpretations of membership functions. We argue that using fuzzy sets for modeling meaning of words and other natural language constructs, along with situations described with natural language is interesting both from purely linguistic perspective, and also as a knowledge representation for problems of computational linguistics and natural language processing.
In this paper we present new results on applying topological data analysis to discourse structures. We show that topological information, extracted from the relationships between sentences can be used in inference, namely it can be applied to the very difficult legal entailment given in the COLIEE 2018 data set. Previous results of Doshi and Zadrozny (2018) and Gholizadeh et al. (2018) show that topological features are useful for classification. The applications of computational topology to entailment are novel in our view provide a new set of tools for discourse semantics: computational topology can perhaps provide a bridge between the brittleness of logic and the regression of neural networks. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using topological information, and some open problems such as explainability of the classifier decisions.
The early phases of requirements engineering (RE) deal with a vast amount of software requirements (i.e., requirements that define characteristics of software systems), which are typically expressed in natural language. Analysing such unstructured requirements, usually obtained from users{'} inputs, is considered a challenging task due to the inherent ambiguity and inconsistency of natural language. To support such a task, methods based on natural language processing (NLP) can be employed. One of the more recent advances in NLP is the use of word embeddings for capturing contextual information, which can then be applied in word analogy tasks. In this paper, we describe a new resource, i.e., embedding-based representations of semantic frames in FrameNet, which was developed to support the detection of relations between software requirements. Our embeddings, which encapsulate contextual information at the semantic frame level, were trained on a large corpus of requirements (i.e., a collection of more than three million mobile application reviews). The similarity between these frame embeddings is then used as a basis for detecting semantic relatedness between software requirements. Compared with existing resources underpinned by word-level embeddings alone, and frame embeddings built upon pre-trained vectors, our proposed frame embeddings obtained better performance against judgements of an RE expert. These encouraging results demonstrate the strong potential of the resource in supporting RE analysis tasks (e.g., traceability), which we plan to investigate as part of our future work.
This paper investigates data-driven segmentation using Re-Pair or Byte Pair Encoding-techniques. In contrast to previous work which has primarily been focused on subword units for machine translation, we are interested in the general properties of such segments above the word level. We call these segments r-grams, and discuss their properties and the effect they have on the token frequency distribution. The proposed approach is evaluated by demonstrating its viability in embedding techniques, both in monolingual and multilingual test settings. We also provide a number of qualitative examples of the proposed methodology, demonstrating its viability as a language-invariant segmentation procedure.
We explore a novel application for interpreting semantic type coercions, motivated by insight into the role that perceptual affordances play in the selection of the semantic roles of artefactual nouns which are observed as arguments for verbs which would stereotypically select for objects of a different type. In order to simulate affordances, which we take to be direct perceptions of context-specific opportunities for action, we preform a distributional analysis dependency relationships between target words and their modifiers and adjuncts. We use these relationships as the basis for generating on-line transformations which project semantic subspaces in which the interpretations of coercive compositions are expected to emerge as salient word-vectors. We offer some preliminary examples of how this model operates on a dataset of sentences involving coercive interactions between verbs and objects specifically designed to evaluate this work.
This paper describes a working system which performs natural language inference using polarity-marked parse trees. The system handles all of the instances of monotonicity inference in the FraCaS data set. Except for the initial parse, it is entirely deterministic. It handles multi-premise arguments, and the kind of inference performed is essentially {``}logical{''}, but it goes beyond what is representable in first-order logic. In any case, the system works on surface forms rather than on representations of any kind.
Distributional semantics models (DSMs) are known to produce excellent representations of word meaning, which correlate with a range of behavioural data. As lexical representations, they have been said to be fundamentally different from truth-theoretic models of semantics, where meaning is defined as a correspondence relation to the world. There are two main aspects to this difference: a) DSMs are built over corpus data which may or may not reflect {`}what is in the world{'}; b) they are built from word co-occurrences, that is, from lexical types rather than entities and sets. In this paper, we inspect the properties of a distributional model built over a set-theoretic approximation of {`}the real world{'}. To achieve this, we take the annotation a large database of images marked with objects, attributes and relations, convert the data into a representation akin to first-order logic and build several distributional models using various combinations of features. We evaluate those models over both relatedness and similarity datasets, demonstrating their effectiveness in standard evaluations. This allows us to conclude that, despite prior claims, truth-theoretic models are good candidates for building graded lexical representations of meaning.
Recently, sequence-to-sequence models have achieved impressive performance on a number of semantic parsing tasks. However, they often do not exploit available linguistic resources, while these, when employed correctly, are likely to increase performance even further. Research in neural machine translation has shown that employing this information has a lot of potential, especially when using a multi-encoder setup. We employ a range of semantic and syntactic resources to improve performance for the task of Discourse Representation Structure Parsing. We show that (i) linguistic features can be beneficial for neural semantic parsing and (ii) the best method of adding these features is by using multiple encoders.
We present the design of a system for making sense of conflicting rules expressed in a fragment of the prominent controlled natural language ACE, yet extended with means of expressing defeasible rules in the form of normality assumptions. The approach we describe is ultimately based on answer-set-programming (ASP); simulating existential quantification by using skolemization in a manner resembling a translation for ASP recently formalized in the context of ∃-ASP. We discuss the advantages of this approach to building on the existing ACE interface to rule-systems, ACERules.
In recent years, both cognitive and computational research has provided empirical analyses of contextual co-occurrence of concrete and abstract words, partially resulting in inconsistent pictures. In this work we provide a more fine-grained description of the distributional nature in the corpus-based interaction of verbs and nouns within subcategorisation, by investigating the concreteness of verbs and nouns that are in a specific syntactic relationship with each other, i.e., subject, direct object, and prepositional object. Overall, our experiments show consistent patterns in the distributional representation of subcategorising and subcategorised concrete and abstract words. At the same time, the studies reveal empirical evidence why contextual abstractness represents a valuable indicator for automatic non-literal language identification.
Referring expressions and definite descriptions of objects in space exploit information both about object characteristics and locations. To resolve potential ambiguity, referencing strategies in language can rely on increasingly abstract concepts to distinguish an object in a given location from similar ones elsewhere, yet the description of the intended location may still be imprecise or difficult to interpret. Meanwhile, modalities such as gesture may communicate spatial information such as locations in a more concise manner. In real peer-to-peer communication, humans use language and gesture together to reference entities, with a capacity for mixing and changing modalities where needed. While recent progress in AI and human-computer interaction has created systems where a human can interact with a computer multimodally, computers often lack the capacity to intelligently mix modalities when generating referring expressions. We present a novel dataset of referring expressions combining natural language and gesture, describe its creation and evaluation, and its uses to train computational models for generating and interpreting multimodal referring expressions.
Word embedding is a technique in Natural Language Processing (NLP) to map words into vector space representations. Since it has boosted the performance of many NLP downstream tasks, the task of learning word embeddings has been addressing significantly. Nevertheless, most of the underlying word embedding methods such as word2vec and GloVe fail to produce high-quality embeddings if the text corpus is small and sparse. This paper proposes a method to generate effective word embeddings from limited data. Through experiments, we show that our proposed model outperforms existing works for the classical word similarity task and for a domain-specific application.
We present a simple method to find topics in user reviews that accompany ratings for products or services. Standard topic analysis will perform sub-optimal on such data since the word distributions in the documents are not only determined by the topics but by the sentiment as well. We reduce the influence of the sentiment on the topic selection by adding two explicit topics, representing positive and negative sentiment. We evaluate the proposed method on a set of over 15,000 hospital reviews. We show that the proposed method, Latent Semantic Analysis with explicit word features, finds topics with a much smaller bias for sentiments than other similar methods.
We know that word embeddings trained using neural-based methods (such as word2vec SGNS) are sensitive to stability problems and that across two models trained using the exact same set of parameters, the nearest neighbors of a word are likely to change. All words are not equally impacted by this internal instability and recent studies have investigated features influencing the stability of word embeddings. This stability can be seen as a clue for the reliability of the semantic representation of a word. In this work, we investigate the influence of the degree of concreteness of nouns on the stability of their semantic representation. We show that for English generic corpora, abstract words are more affected by stability problems than concrete words. We also found that to a certain extent, the difference between the degree of concreteness of a noun and its nearest neighbors can partly explain the stability or instability of its neighbors.
Temporal notions based on a finite set \textit{A} of properties are represented in strings, on which projections are defined that vary the granularity \textit{A}. The structure of properties in \textit{A} is elaborated to describe statives, events and actions, subject to a distinction in meaning (advocated by Levin and Rappaport Hovav) between what the lexicon prescribes and what a context of use supplies. The projections proposed are deployed as labels for records and record types amenable to finite-state methods.
A growing interest in tasks involving language understanding by the NLP community has led to the need for effective semantic parsing and inference. Modern NLP systems use semantic representations that do not quite fulfill the nuanced needs for language understanding: adequately modeling language semantics, enabling general inferences, and being accurately recoverable. This document describes underspecified logical forms (ULF) for Episodic Logic (EL), which is an initial form for a semantic representation that balances these needs. ULFs fully resolve the semantic type structure while leaving issues such as quantifier scope, word sense, and anaphora unresolved; they provide a starting point for further resolution into EL, and enable certain structural inferences without further resolution. This document also presents preliminary results of creating a hand-annotated corpus of ULFs for the purpose of training a precise ULF parser, showing a three-person pairwise interannotator agreement of 0.88 on confident annotations. We hypothesize that a divide-and-conquer approach to semantic parsing starting with derivation of ULFs will lead to semantic analyses that do justice to subtle aspects of linguistic meaning, and will enable construction of more accurate semantic parsers.
This paper describes in brief the proposal called {`}QuantML{'} which was accepted by the International Organisation for Standards (ISO) last February as a starting point for developing a standard for the interoperable annotation of quantification phenomena in natural language, as part of the ISO 24617 Semantic Annotation Framework. The proposal, firmly rooted in the theory of generalised quantifiers, neo-Davidsonian semantics, and DRT, covers a wide range of quantification phenomena. The QuantML scheme consists of (1) an abstract syntax which defines {`}annotation structures{'} as triples and other set-theoretic constructs; (b) a compositional semantics of annotation structures; (3) an XML representation of annotation structures.
Topics models, such as LDA, are widely used in Natural Language Processing. Making their output interpretable is an important area of research with applications to areas such as the enhancement of exploratory search interfaces and the development of interpretable machine learning models. Conventionally, topics are represented by their n most probable words, however, these representations are often difficult for humans to interpret. This paper explores the re-ranking of topic words to generate more interpretable topic representations. A range of approaches are compared and evaluated in two experiments. The first uses crowdworkers to associate topics represented by different word rankings with related documents. The second experiment is an automatic approach based on a document retrieval task applied on multiple domains. Results in both experiments demonstrate that re-ranking words improves topic interpretability and that the most effective re-ranking schemes were those which combine information about the importance of words both within topics and their relative frequency in the entire corpus. In addition, close correlation between the results of the two evaluation approaches suggests that the automatic method proposed here could be used to evaluate re-ranking methods without the need for human judgements.
This paper builds on previous work using Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) to derive a transparent syntax-semantics interface for Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) parsing. We define new semantics for the CCG combinators that is better suited to deriving AMR graphs. In particular, we define relation-wise alternatives for the application and composition combinators: these require that the two constituents being combined overlap in one AMR relation. We also provide a new semantics for type raising, which is necessary for certain constructions. Using these mechanisms, we suggest an analysis of eventive nouns, which present a challenge for deriving AMR graphs. Our theoretical analysis will facilitate future work on robust and transparent AMR parsing using CCG.
This paper presents a semantic annotation scheme for Danish adjectives, focusing both on prototypical semantic content and semantic collocational restrictions on an adjective{'}s head noun. The core type set comprises about 110 categories ordered in a shallow hierarchy with 14 primary and 25 secondary umbrella categories. In addition, domain information and binary sentiment tags are provided, as well as VerbNet-derived frames and semantic roles for those adjectives governing arguments. The scheme has been almost fully implemented on the lexicon of the Danish VISL parser, DanGram, containing 14,000 adjectives. We discuss the annotation scheme and its applicational perspectives, and present a statistical breakdown and coverage evaluation for three Danish reference corpora.
Complex predicates formed of a semantically {`}light{'} verbal head and a noun or verb which contributes the major part of the meaning are frequently referred to as {`}light verb constructions{'} (LVCs). In the paper, we present a case study of LVCs with the German posture verb stehen {`}stand{'}. In our account, we model the syntactic as well as semantic composition of such LVCs by combining Lexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammar (LTAG) with frames. Starting from the analysis of the literal uses of posture verbs, we show how the meaning components of the literal uses are systematically exploited in the interpretation of stehen-LVCs. The paper constitutes an important step towards a compositional and computational analysis of LVCs. We show that LTAG allows us to separate constructional from lexical meaning components and that frames enable elegant generalizations over event types and related constraints.
Distributional Semantic Models (DSMs) construct vector representations of word meanings based on their contexts. Typically, the contexts of a word are defined as its closest neighbours, but they can also be retrieved from its syntactic dependency relations. In this work, we propose a new dependency-based DSM. The novelty of our model lies in associating an independent meaning representation, a matrix, with each dependency-label. This allows it to capture specifics of the relations between words and contexts, leading to good performance on both intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation tasks. In addition to that, our model has an inherent ability to represent dependency chains as products of matrices which provides a straightforward way of handling further contexts of a word.
Inferences regarding {``}Jane{'}s arrival in London{''} from predications such as {``}Jane is going to London{''} or {``}Jane has gone to London{''} depend on tense and aspect of the predications. Tense determines the temporal location of the predication in the past, present or future of the time of utterance. The aspectual auxiliaries on the other hand specify the internal constituency of the event, i.e. whether the event of {``}going to London{''} is completed and whether its consequences hold at that time or not. While tense and aspect are among the most important factors for determining natural language inference, there has been very little work to show whether modern embedding models capture these semantic concepts. In this paper we propose a novel entailment dataset and analyse the ability of contextualised word representations to perform inference on predications across aspectual types and tenses. We show that they encode a substantial amount of information relating to tense and aspect, but fail to consistently model inferences that require reasoning with these semantic properties.
Distributional semantics has had enormous empirical success in Computational Linguistics and Cognitive Science in modeling various semantic phenomena, such as semantic similarity, and distributional models are widely used in state-of-the-art Natural Language Processing systems. However, the theoretical status of distributional semantics within a broader theory of language and cognition is still unclear: What does distributional semantics model? Can it be, on its own, a fully adequate model of the meanings of linguistic expressions? The standard answer is that distributional semantics is not fully adequate in this regard, because it falls short on some of the central aspects of formal semantic approaches: truth conditions, entailment, reference, and certain aspects of compositionality. We argue that this standard answer rests on a misconception: These aspects do not belong in a theory of expression meaning, they are instead aspects of speaker meaning, i.e., communicative intentions in a particular context. In a slogan: words do not refer, speakers do. Clearing this up enables us to argue that distributional semantics on its own is an adequate model of expression meaning. Our proposal sheds light on the role of distributional semantics in a broader theory of language and cognition, its relationship to formal semantics, and its place in computational models.
Discourse connectives are known to be subject to both usage and sense ambiguity, as has already been discussed in the literature. But discourse connectives are no different from other linguistic expressions in being subject to other types of ambiguity as well. Four are illustrated and discussed here.
Open Information Extraction (Open IE) aims at generating entity-relation-entity triples from a large amount of text, aiming at capturing key semantics of the text. Given a triple, the relation expresses the type of semantic relation between the entities. Although relations from an Open IE system are more extensible than those used in a traditional Information Extraction system and a Knowledge Base (KB) such as Knowledge Graphs, the former lacks in semantics; an Open IE relation is simply a sequence of words, whereas a KB relation has a predefined meaning. As a way to provide a meaning to an Open IE relation, we attempt to align it with one of the predefined set of relations used in a KB. Our approach is to use a Siamese network that compares two sequences of word embeddings representing an Open IE relation and a predefined KB relation. In order to make the approach practical, we automatically generate a training dataset using a distant supervision approach instead of relying on a hand-labeled dataset. Our experiment shows that the proposed method can capture the relational semantics better than the recent approaches.
In this paper, we propose a language-agnostic deep neural network architecture for aspect-based sentiment analysis. The proposed approach is based on Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (Bi-LSTM) network, which is further assisted with extra hand-crafted features. We define three different architectures for the successful combination of word embeddings and hand-crafted features. We evaluate the proposed approach for six languages (i.e. English, Spanish, French, Dutch, German and Hindi) and two problems (i.e. aspect term extraction and aspect sentiment classification). Experiments show that the proposed model attains state-of-the-art performance in most of the settings.
We conduct two experiments to study the effect of context on metaphor paraphrase aptness judgments. The first is an AMT crowd source task in which speakers rank metaphor-paraphrase candidate sentence pairs in short document contexts for paraphrase aptness. In the second we train a composite DNN to predict these human judgments, first in binary classifier mode, and then as gradient ratings. We found that for both mean human judgments and our DNN{'}s predictions, adding document context compresses the aptness scores towards the center of the scale, raising low out-of-context ratings and decreasing high out-of-context scores. We offer a provisional explanation for this compression effect.
Concreteness of words has been studied extensively in psycholinguistic literature. A number of datasets have been created with average values for perceived concreteness of words. We show that we can train a regression model on these data, using word embeddings and morphological features, that can predict these concreteness values with high accuracy. We evaluate the model on 7 publicly available datasets. Only for a few small subsets of these datasets prediction of concreteness values are found in the literature. Our results clearly outperform the reported results for these datasets.
Implicit discourse relation classification is one of the most difficult steps in discourse parsing. The difficulty stems from the fact that the coherence relation must be inferred based on the content of the discourse relational arguments. Therefore, an effective encoding of the relational arguments is of crucial importance. We here propose a new model for implicit discourse relation classification, which consists of a classifier, and a sequence-to-sequence model which is trained to generate a representation of the discourse relational arguments by trying to predict the relational arguments including a suitable implicit connective. Training is possible because such implicit connectives have been annotated as part of the PDTB corpus. Along with a memory network, our model could generate more refined representations for the task. And on the now standard 11-way classification, our method outperforms the previous state of the art systems on the PDTB benchmark on multiple settings including cross validation.
We describe a transfer method based on annotation projection to develop a dependency-based semantic role labeling system for languages for which no supervised linguistic information other than parallel data is available. Unlike previous work that presumes the availability of supervised features such as lemmas, part-of-speech tags, and dependency parse trees, we only make use of word and character features. Our deep model considers using character-based representations as well as unsupervised stem embeddings to alleviate the need for supervised features. Our experiments outperform a state-of-the-art method that uses supervised lexico-syntactic features on 6 out of 7 languages in the Universal Proposition Bank.
The multimodal models used in the emerging field at the intersection of computational linguistics and computer vision implement the bottom-up processing of the {``}Hub and Spoke{''} architecture proposed in cognitive science to represent how the brain processes and combines multi-sensory inputs. In particular, the Hub is implemented as a neural network encoder. We investigate the effect on this encoder of various vision-and-language tasks proposed in the literature: visual question answering, visual reference resolution, and visually grounded dialogue. To measure the quality of the representations learned by the encoder, we use two kinds of analyses. First, we evaluate the encoder pre-trained on the different vision-and-language tasks on an existing {``}diagnostic task{''} designed to assess multimodal semantic understanding. Second, we carry out a battery of analyses aimed at studying how the encoder merges and exploits the two modalities.
Learning to follow human instructions is a long-pursued goal in artificial intelligence. The task becomes particularly challenging if no prior knowledge of the employed language is assumed while relying only on a handful of examples to learn from. Work in the past has relied on hand-coded components or manually engineered features to provide strong inductive biases that make learning in such situations possible. In contrast, here we seek to establish whether this knowledge can be acquired automatically by a neural network system through a two phase training procedure: A (slow) offline learning stage where the network learns about the general structure of the task and a (fast) online adaptation phase where the network learns the language of a new given speaker. Controlled experiments show that when the network is exposed to familiar instructions but containing novel words, the model adapts very efficiently to the new vocabulary. Moreover, even for human speakers whose language usage can depart significantly from our artificial training language, our network can still make use of its automatically acquired inductive bias to learn to follow instructions more effectively.
The embedding of words and documents in compact, semantically meaningful vector spaces is a crucial part of modern information systems. Deep Learning models are powerful but their hyperparameter selection is often complex and they are expensive to train, and while pre-trained models are available, embeddings trained on general corpora are not necessarily well-suited to domain specific tasks. We propose a novel embedding method which extends random projection by weighting and projecting raw term embeddings orthogonally to an average language vector, thus improving the discriminating power of resulting term embeddings, and build more meaningful document embeddings by assigning appropriate weights to individual terms. We describe how updating the term embeddings online as we process the training data results in an extremely efficient method, in terms of both computational and memory requirements. Our experiments show highly competitive results with various state-of-the-art embedding methods on different tasks, including the standard STS benchmark and a subject prediction task, at a fraction of the computational cost.
Popular word embedding methods such as word2vec and GloVe assign a single vector representation to each word, even if a word has multiple distinct meanings. Multi-sense embeddings instead provide different vectors for each sense of a word. However, they typically cannot serve as a drop-in replacement for conventional single-sense embeddings, because the correct sense vector needs to be selected for each word. In this work, we study the effect of multi-sense embeddings on the task of reverse dictionaries. We propose a technique to easily integrate them into an existing neural network architecture using an attention mechanism. Our experiments demonstrate that large improvements can be obtained when employing multi-sense embeddings both in the input sequence as well as for the target representation. An analysis of the sense distributions and of the learned attention is provided as well.
Word embedding representations provide good estimates of word meaning and give state-of-the art performance in semantic tasks. Embedding approaches differ as to whether and how they account for the context surrounding a word. We present a comparison of different word and context representations on the task of proposing substitutes for a target word in context (lexical substitution). We also experiment with tuning contextualized word embeddings on a dataset of sense-specific instances for each target word. We show that powerful contextualized word representations, which give high performance in several semantics-related tasks, deal less well with the subtle in-context similarity relationships needed for substitution. This is better handled by models trained with this objective in mind, where the inter-dependence between word and context representations is explicitly modeled during training.
Propelling, and propelled by, the {``}deep learning revolution{''}, recent years have seen the introduction of ever larger corpora of images annotated with natural language expressions. We survey some of these corpora, taking a perspective that reverses the usual directionality, as it were, by viewing the images as semantic annotation of the natural language expressions. We discuss datasets that can be derived from the corpora, and tasks of potential interest for computational semanticists that can be defined on those. In this, we make use of relations provided by the corpora (namely, the link between expression and image, and that between two expressions linked to the same image) and relations that we can add (similarity relations between expressions, or between images). Specifically, we show that in this way we can create data that can be used to learn and evaluate lexical and compositional grounded semantics, and we show that the {``}linked to same image{''} relation tracks a semantic implication relation that is recognisable to annotators even in the absence of the linking image as evidence. Finally, as an example of possible benefits of this approach, we show that an exemplar-model-based approach to implication beats a (simple) distributional space-based one on some derived datasets, while lending itself to explainability.
Categorization is a central capability of human cognition, and a number of theories have been developed to account for properties of categorization. Even though many tasks in semantics also involve categorization of some kind, theories of categorization do not play a major role in contemporary research in computational linguistics. This paper follows the idea that embedding-based models of semantics lend themselves well to being formulated in terms of classical categorization theories. The benefit is a space of model families that enables (a) the formulation of hypotheses about the impact of major design decisions, and (b) a transparent assessment of these decisions. We instantiate this idea on the task of frame-semantic frame identification. We define four models that cross two design variables: (a) the choice of prototype vs. exemplar categorization, corresponding to different degrees of generalization applied to the input; and (b) the presence vs. absence of a fine-tuning step, corresponding to generic vs. task-adaptive categorization. We find that for frame identification, generalization and task-adaptive categorization both yield substantial benefits. Our prototype-based, fine-tuned model, which combines the best choices for these variables, establishes a new state of the art in frame identification.
Semi-supervised sequence labeling is an effective way to train a low-resource morphological segmentation system. We show that a feature set augmentation approach, which combines the strengths of generative and discriminative models, is suitable both for graphical models like conditional random field (CRF) and sequence-to-sequence neural models. We perform a comparative evaluation between three existing and one novel semi-supervised segmentation methods. All four systems are language-independent and have open-source implementations. We improve on previous best results for North Sámi morphological segmentation. We see a relative improvement in morph boundary F1-score of 8.6% compared to using the generative Morfessor FlatCat model directly and 2.4% compared to a seq2seq baseline. Our neural sequence tagging system reaches almost the same performance as the CRF topline. Tiivistelmä Puoliohjattu sekvenssiluokitus on tehokas tapa opettaa morfologinen pilkontajärjestelmä kielelle, jolle on saatavilla niukasti lingvistisiä resursseja. Osoitamme, että generatiivisen mallin tuottamien piirteiden käyttäminen soveltuu paitsi graafisille malleille kuten ehdollinen satunnaiskenttä (CRF), myös sekvenssistäsekvenssiin (seq2seq) -neuroverkkomalleille. Vertailemme kolmea olemassaolevaa ja yhtä uutta puoliohjattua menetelmää. Kaikki menetelmät ovat kieliriippumattomia, ja niille on avoimen lähdekoodin toteutus. Parannamme aikaisempia tuloksia pohjoissaamen morfologisen pilkonnan tehtävässä. Suhteelliset parannukset morfirajojen osumien F1-mittaan ovat 8.6% verrattuna generatiiviseen Morfessor FlatCat -malliin ja 2.4% verrattuna seq2seq-verrokkimalliin. Ehdottamamme uusi neuroverkkomalli saavuttaa lähes saman tason kuin paras CRF-malli. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution–NoDerivatives 4.0 International Licence. Licence details: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/  15 Proceedings of the ﬁfth Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Uralic Languages, pages 15–26, Tartu, Estonia, January 7 - January 8, 2019.  
This paper introduces a work in progress for implementing a free full text semantic tagger for Finnish, FiST. The tagger is based on a 46 226 lexeme semantic lexicon of Finnish that was published in 2016. The basis of the semantic lexicon was developed in the early 2000s in an EU funded project Benedict (Löfberg et al., 2005). Löfberg (2017) describes compilation of the lexicon and evaluates a proprietary version of the Finnish Semantic Tagger, the FST2. The FST and its lexicon were developed using the English Semantic Tagger (The EST) of University of Lancaster as a model. This semantic tagger was developed at the University Centre for Corpus Research on Language (UCREL) at Lancaster University as part of the UCREL Semantic Analysis System (USAS3) framework. The semantic lexicon of the USAS framework is based on the modified and enriched categories of the Longman Lexicon of Contemporary English (McArthur, 1981). We have implemented a basic working version of a new full text semantic tagger for Finnish based on freely available components. The implementation uses Omorfi and FinnPos for morphological analysis of Finnish words. After the morphological recognition phase words from the 46K semantic lexicon are matched against the morphologically unambiguous base forms. In our comprehensive tests the lexical tagging coverage of the current implementation is around 82– 90% with different text types. The present version needs still some enhancements, at least processing of semantic ambiguity of words and analysis of compounds, and perhaps also treatment of multiword expressions. Also a semantically marked ground truth evaluation collection should be established for evaluation of the tagger. Tiivistelmä Suomessa on harjoitettu kieliteknologiaa laaja-alaisesti 1980-luvun alusta, ja melkein 40 vuotta jatkunut tutkimus ja kehitystyö on tuottanut useita merkittäviä ohjelmistoja suomen kielen analyysiin. Alkuvuosikymmenien käytöltään rajoitetuista ohjelmistoista on siirrytty 2000-luvulla paljolti joko avoimen lähdekoodin ohjelmiin tai ohjelmien vapaaseen saatavuuteen. Vapaasti saatavia suomen kielen keskeisiä kieliteknologisia ohjelmia on olemassa tällä hetkellä hyvin morfologiseen ja syntaktiseen analyysiin, esimerkiksi Omorfi, Voikko ja FinnPos morfologiaan ja Finnish depedency parser lauseenjäsennykseen. FiNER-ohjelmistolla voidaan tunnistaa ja merkitä erisnimiä. Toistaiseksi ei kuitenkaan ole olemassa ainoatakaan vapaasti saatavaa suomenkielisten kokotekstien kattavaa semanttista merkintää tekevää ohjelmaa, semanttista taggeria. Voikin todeta, että suomen kielen automaattiseen semanttiseen käsittelyyn on jäänyt jos ei aivan tyhjiö, niin kuitenkin suuri aukko. Tässä julkaisussa esitellään FiST, työn alla oleva suomen nykykielen kokotekstien semanttinen merkitsin. FiSTin ensimmäinen versio perustuu vapaasti saatavilla oleviin osiin: 46 226 sanan semanttiseen leksikkoon sekä vapaisiin morfologisen analyysin ohjelmiin Omorfiin ja FinnPosin. Ohjelma merkitsee teksteihin sanojen semanttisia luokkia noin 82–90 %:n sanastollisella kattavuudella. 1This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence. Licence details: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ 2 The tagger was implemented by Kielikone Ltd. It used proprietary analysis modules of Kielikone for morphological and morpho-syntactic analysis of Finnish. The software has not been publicly available and can be considered partly outdated now. Its operational design is described in Löfberg et al. (2005). 3 http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/usas/ 66 Proceedings of the ﬁfth Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Uralic Languages, pages 66–76, Tartu, Estonia, January 7 - January 8, 2019.  
Human reading behavior is sensitive to surprisal: more predictable words tend to be read faster. Unexpectedly, this applies not only to the surprisal of the word that is currently being read, but also to the surprisal of upcoming (successor) words that have not been ﬁxated yet. This ﬁnding has been interpreted as evidence that readers can extract lexical information parafoveally. Calling this interpretation into question, Angele et al. (2015) showed that successor effects appear even in contexts in which those successor words are not yet visible. They hypothesized that successor surprisal predicts reading time because it approximates the reader’s uncertainty about upcoming words. We test this hypothesis on a reading time corpus using an LSTM language model, and ﬁnd that successor surprisal and entropy are independent predictors of reading time. This independence suggests that entropy alone is unlikely to be the full explanation for successor surprisal effects. 
Reduplication is a theoretically and typologically well-studied phenomenon, but there is no database of reduplication patterns which include explicit computational models. This paper introduces RedTyp, an SQL database which provides a computational resource that can be used by both theoretical and computational linguists who work on reduplication. It catalogs 138 reduplicative morphemes across 91 languages, which are modeled with 57 distinct ﬁnite-state machines. The ﬁnite-state machines are 2-way transducers, which provide an explicit, compact, and convenient representation for reduplication patterns, and which arguably capture the linguistic generalizations more directly than the more commonly used 1way transducers for modeling natural language morphophonology. 
We present a new method for unsupervised learning of multilingual symbol (e.g. character) embeddings, without any parallel data or prior knowledge about correspondences between languages. It is able to exploit similarities across languages between the distributions over symbols’ contexts of use within their language, even in the absence of any symbols in common to the two languages. In experiments with an artiﬁcially corrupted text corpus, we show that the method can retrieve character correspondences obscured by noise. We then present encouraging results of applying the method to real linguistic data, including for low-resourced languages. The learned representations open the possibility of fully unsupervised comparative studies of text or speech corpora in low-resourced languages with no prior knowledge regarding their symbol sets. 
We use model theory and logical interpretations to systematically compare two competing representational theories in phonology, QTheory (Shih and Inkelas, 2014, forthcoming) and Autosegmental Phonology (Goldsmith, 1976). We ﬁnd that, under reasonable assumptions for capturing tone patterns, QTheory Representations are equivalent to Autosegmental Representations, in that any constraint that can be written in one theory can be written in another. This contradicts the assertions of Shih and Inkelas, who claim that Q-Theory Representations are different from, and superior to, Autosegmental Representations. 
We present a grammar engineering library for modeling objectival declarative clausal complementation patterns attested crosslinguistically. Our primary contribution is positing a set of syntactico-semantic analyses couched within a variant of the HPSG syntactic formalism and integrating them with a variety of phenomena already implemented in a grammar engineering toolkit. We evaluate the addition to the system on testsuites from genetically diverse languages that were not considered during development. 
RNN language models have achieved state-ofthe-art results on various tasks, but what exactly they are representing about syntax is as yet unclear. Here we investigate whether RNN language models learn humanlike word order preferences in syntactic alternations. We collect language model surprisal scores for controlled sentence stimuli exhibiting major syntactic alternations in English: heavy NP shift, particle shift, the dative alternation, and the genitive alternation. We show that RNN language models reproduce human preferences in these alternations based on NP length, animacy, and deﬁniteness. We collect human acceptability ratings for our stimuli, in the ﬁrst acceptability judgment experiment directly manipulating the predictors of syntactic alternations. We show that the RNNs’ performance is similar to the human acceptability ratings and is not matched by an n-gram baseline model. Our results show that RNNs learn the abstract features of weight, animacy, and deﬁniteness which underlie soft constraints on syntactic alternations. The best-performing models for many natural language processing tasks in recent years have been recurrent neural networks (RNNs) (Elman, 1990; Sutskever et al., 2014; Goldberg, 2017), but the black-box nature of these models makes it hard to know exactly what generalizations they have learned about their linguistic input: Have they learned generalizations stated over hierarchical structures, or only dependencies among relatively local groups of words (Linzen et al., 2016; Gulordava et al., 2018; Futrell et al., 2018)? Do they represent structures analogous to syntactic dependency trees (Williams et al., 2018), and can they represent complex relationships such as ﬁller–gap dependencies (Chowdhury and Zamparelli, 2018; Wilcox et al., 2018)? In order to make progress  with RNNs, it is crucial to determine what RNNs actually learn given currently standard practices; then we can design network architectures, objective functions, and training practices to build on strengths and alleviate weaknesses (Linzen, 2018). In this work, we investigate whether RNNs trained on a language modeling objective learn certain syntactic preferences exhibited by humans, especially those involving word order. We draw on a rich literature from quantitative linguistics that has investigated these preferences in corpora and experiments (e.g., McDonald et al., 1993; Stallings et al., 1998; Bresnan et al., 2007; Rosenbach, 2008). Word order preferences are a key aspect of human linguistic knowledge. In many cases, they can be captured using local co-occurrence statistics: for example, the preference for subject–verb– object word order in English can often be captured directly in short word strings, as in the dramatic preference for I ate apples over I apples ate. However, some word order preferences are more abstract and can only be stated in terms of higherorder linguistic units and abstract features. For example, humans exhibit a general preference for word orders in which words linked in syntactic dependencies are close to each other: such sentences are produced more frequently and comprehended more easily (Hawkins, 1994; Futrell et al., 2015; Temperley and Gildea, 2018). We are interested in whether RNNs learn abstract word order preferences as a way of probing their syntactic knowledge. If RNNs exhibit these preferences for appropriately controlled stimuli, then on some level they have learned the abstractions required to state them. Knowing whether RNNs show human-like word order preferences also bears on their suitability as language generation systems. White and Rajkumar (2012) have shown that language gener-  50 Proceedings of the Society for Computation in Linguistics (SCiL) 2019, pages 50-59. New York City, New York, January 3-6, 2019  ation systems produce better output when humanlike word order preferecences are built in; it may turn out that RNN language models reproduce such preferences such that they do not need to be built in explicitly. As part of this work, we validate and quantify these word order preferences for humans by collecting acceptability ratings for English sentences with different word orders. To our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst experimental acceptabilityjudgment study of these word order preferences using fully controlled stimuli; previous experimental work has used naturalistic stimuli derived from corpora, in which the predictors of word order are not directly manipulated (Rosenbach, 2003; Bresnan, 2007).  Alternations studied We study four syntactic alternations in English: particle shift, in which a verbal particle can appear directly after the verb or later (e.g., give up the habit vs. give the habit up); heavy NP shift, in which a verb is followed by an NP and a PP with order NP–PP or PP–NP; the dative alternation (e.g. give a book to Tom vs. give Tom a book); and the genitive alternation (e.g. the movie’s title vs. the title of the movie). In all these alternations, three common factors inﬂuencing word order preferences are evident: short constituents go before long constituents; words which are deﬁnite go earlier; and words referring to animate entities go earlier. In fact these preferences are very general patterns across languages, and in some languages constitute hard constraints (Bresnan et al., 2001).  
This paper presents a model that treats segmentation and underlying representation acquisition as parallel, interacting processes. A probability distribution over mappings from underlying to surface representations is deﬁned using a Maximum Entropy grammar which weights a set of underlying representation constraints (URCs) (Apoussidou, 2007; Pater et al., 2012). URCs are induced from observed surface strings and used to generate candidates. Structural ambiguity arising from the comparison of segmented outputs to unsegmented surface strings is handled with Expectation Maximization (Dempster et al., 1977; Jarosz, 2013). The model successfully learns a simple voicing assimilation rule and segmentation via correspondences between surface phones and input meanings. The trained grammar is also able to segment novel forms afﬁxed with familiar morphemes. 
An evolutionary algorithm for simultaneously inducing and weighting phonological constraints (Winnow-MaxEnt-Subtree Breeder) is described, analyzed, and illustrated. Implementing weights as sub-population sizes, reproduction with selection executes a new variant of Winnow (Littlestone, 1988), which is shown to converge. A ﬂexible constraint schema, based on the same prosodic and autosegmental trees used in representations, is described, together with algorithms for mutation and recombination (mating). The algorithm is applied to explaining abrupt learning curves, and predicts an empirical connection between abruptness and languageparticularity. 
Recent Iterated Response (IR) models of pragmatics conceptualize language use as a recursive process in which agents reason about each other to increase communicative efﬁciency. These models are generally deﬁned over complete utterances. However, there is substantial evidence that pragmatic reasoning takes place incrementally during production and comprehension. We address this with an incremental IR model. We compare the incremental and global versions using computational simulations, and we assess the incremental model against existing experimental data and in the TUNA corpus for referring expression generation, showing that the model can capture phenomena out of reach of global versions. 
A growing body of research in phonology addresses the representation and learning of variable processes and exceptional, lexically conditioned processes. Linzen et al. (2013) present a MaxEnt model with additive lexical scales to account for data exhibiting both variation and exceptionality. In this paper, we implement a learning model for lexically scaled MaxEnt grammars which we show to be successful across a range of data containing patterns of variation and exceptionality. We also explore how the model’s parameters and the rate of exceptionality in the data inﬂuence its performance and predictions for novel forms. 
Through Gradient Symbolic Computation (Smolensky and Goldrick, 2016), in which input forms can consist of gradient blends of more than one phonological realization, we propose a way of deriving surface forms in complex inﬂectional paradigms that dispenses with direct references to inﬂectional classes and relies solely on relatively simple blends of input expressions. In languages whose inﬂectional systems have a highly complex paradigmatic structure, it becomes a challenge to explain how a speaker can produce a correct inﬂectional form when the number of possible forms is exceedingly large. As Ackerman and Malouf (2013, p. 429) (henceforth A&M) comment: “That speakers are able to do this is a truly puzzling accomplishment given the extraordinary variation and complexity attested in the morphological systems of the world.” When it becomes extremely difﬁcult for a speaker to memorize every possible inﬂectional form for every lexeme in their language, it becomes attractive to posit some means by which they can produce a correct unmemorized form. Three interacting types of paradigmatic complexity that put a burden on learning are addressed here: (a) differences in inﬂectional material across lexemes, which, descriptively, result in division of lexemes into inﬂectional classes; (b) syncretism, where the same inﬂectional material occurs in different paradigm cells; (c) independent subsystems of inﬂectional class behaviour, evident in Mazatec (see §3.) These complexities are all ways in which inﬂectional patterns depart from canonicity as deﬁned in detail by Corbett (2009); Baerman and Corbett (2010); Stump (2016). Through Gradient Symbolic Computation (Smolensky and Goldrick, 2016), a type of Harmonic Grammar, and with examples from Russian  and Mazatec1, we propose a system that enables a speaker to produce correct forms of complex paradigms through learnable input representations without indexing to inﬂectional classes. The paper is organized as follows. §1 introduces GSC and how it can be applied to learning exponents of inﬂectional paradigms. §2 shows how Russian noun inﬂection can be acquired through this framework. §2.1 shows how GSC limits the kinds of inﬂectional patterning that are possible. §3 analyses complex paradigms in Mazatec, where inﬂectional classes vary in three cross-cutting dimensions. §4 discusses testing and comparison with other models. §5 summarizes how this framework can both explain departures from canonicity in inﬂectional paradigms and also constrain the degree of departure from the canonical. 
Parsing models have long beneﬁted from the use of lexical information, and indeed current state-of-the art neural network models for dependency parsing achieve substantial improvements by beneﬁting from distributed representations of lexical information. At the same time, humans can easily parse sentences with unknown or even novel words, as in Lewis Carroll’s poem Jabberwocky. In this paper, we carry out jabberwocky parsing experiments, exploring how robust a state-of-the-art neural network parser is to the absence of lexical information. We ﬁnd that current parsing models, at least under usual training regimens, are in fact overly dependent on lexical information, and perform badly in the jabberwocky context. We also demonstrate that the technique of word dropout drastically improves parsing robustness in this setting, and also leads to signiﬁcant improvements in outof-domain parsing. 
This paper addresses the hypothesis that unnatural patterns generated by grammar formalisms can be eliminated on the grounds that they are unlearnable. I consider three examples of formal languages thought to represent dependencies unattested in natural language syntax, and show that all three can be learned by grammar induction algorithms following the Distributional Learning paradigm of Clark and Eyraud (2007). While learnable language classes are restrictive by necessity (Gold, 1967), these facts suggest that learnability alone may be insufﬁcient for addressing concerns of overgeneration in syntax. 
This paper outlines a formal model of socially motivated language change which unites insights from identity-oriented theories of language change with formal theories of language use and understanding. We use (Ga¨rdenfors, 2000)’s Conceptual Spaces framework to formalize socially motivated ideological change and use signaling games with an iterated best response solution concept (Franke, 2009; Frank and Goodman, 2012) to formalize the link between ideology, linguistic meaning and language use. We then show how this new framework can be used to shed light on the mechanisms underlying socially-motivated change in French grammatical gender. 
Verbs that participate in diathesis alternations have different semantics in their different syntactic environments, which need to be distinguished in order to process these verbs and their contexts correctly. We design and implement 8 approaches to the automatic identiﬁcation of the causative alternation in English (3 based on VerbNet classes, 5 based on individual verbs). For verbs in this alternation, the semantic roles that contribute to the meaning of the verb can be associated with different syntactic slots. Our most successful approaches use distributional vectors and achieve an F1 score of up to 79% on a balanced test set. We also apply our approaches to the distinction between the causative alternation and the unexpressed object alternation. Our best system for this is based on syntactic information, with an F1 score of 75% on a balanced test set. 
We analyze gendered communities deﬁned in three different ways: text, users, and sentiment. Differences across these representations reveal facets of communities’ distinctive identities, such as social group, topic, and attitudes. Two communities may have high text similarity but not user similarity or vice versa, and word usage also does not vary according to a clearcut, binary perspective of gender. Community-speciﬁc sentiment lexicons demonstrate that sentiment can be a useful indicator of words’ social meaning and community values, especially in the context of discussion content and user demographics. Our results show that social platforms such as Reddit are active settings for different constructions of gender. 
In the domain of unsupervised learning most work on speech has focused on discovering low-level constructs such as phoneme inventories or word-like units. In contrast, for written language, where there is a large body of work on unsupervised induction of semantic representations of words, whole sentences and longer texts. In this study we examine the challenges of adapting these approaches from written to spoken language. We conjecture that unsupervised learning of the semantics of spoken language becomes feasible if we abstract from the surface variability. We simulate this setting with a dataset of utterances spoken by a realistic but uniform synthetic voice. We evaluate two simple unsupervised models which, to varying degrees of success, learn semantic representations of speech fragments. Finally we present inconclusive results on human speech, and discuss the challenges inherent in learning distributional semantic representations on unrestricted natural spoken language. 
This paper proposes a methodology for comparing grammatical contrasts across categories with the tools of distributional semantics. After outlining why such a comparison is relevant to current theoretical work on gender and other morphosyntactic features, we present intrinsic and extrinsic predictability as instruments for analyzing semantic contrasts between pairs of words. We then apply our method to a dataset of gender pairs of French nouns and adjectives. We ﬁnd that, while the distributional effect of gender is overall less predictable for nouns than for adjectives, it is heavily inﬂuenced by semantic properties of the adjectives. 
We present a Rational Speech Acts approach to modeling how conversation participants reason about perspectival expressions. The interpretation of perspectival expressions, such as the motion verbs come and go, depends on the point-of-view from which they are evaluated. In order to interpret a perspectival expression, the listener must jointly reason about the speaker’s intended message and their choice of perspective. We propose a Bayesian approach to this inference problem and describe an extension of the Rational Speech Acts model that incorporates perspective. We lay out three sets of predictions that this model makes relating to the lexical semantics of go, the cost of non-speaker perspectives, and marginal inference over worlds. 
This study explores the organizing principles of sound inventories by examining attested one-segment gaps in obstruent inventories. Models based on different theories of inventory organization are built and compared in a computational task where models make a binary decision to identify gaps and attested sounds. Results show that segment markedness, deﬁned either in terms of grounded phonetic properties or typological frequencies, is a good predictor of whether a segment is likely to be gapped in an inventory. On the other hand, whether an attested segment, compared to a gapped segment, makes the feature representation more symmetric or economical, is not a good predictor of whether a segment is gapped. Finally, artiﬁcial neural networks that take inventories and segments as bags of feature values outperform all aforementioned models, demonstrating the extent to which the task of gap identiﬁcation is learnable from distributional properties in the data. 
We provide a general formal framework for analyzing c-command based dependencies in syntax, e.g. binding and NPI licensing, from a subregular perspective. C-command relations are represented as strings computed from Minimalist derivation trees, and syntactic dependencies are shown to be input-output tierbased strictly local over such strings. The complexity of many syntactic phenomena thus is comparable to dependencies in phonology and morphology. 
Learning vocabulary is essential to successful communication. Complicating this task is the underappreciated fact that most common words are associated with multiple senses (are polysemous) (e.g., baseball cap vs. cap of a bottle), while other words are homonymous, evoking meanings that are unrelated to one another (e.g., baseball bat vs. ﬂying bat). Models of human word learning have thus far failed to represent this level of naturalistic complexity. We extend a feature-based computational model to allow for multiple meanings, while capturing the gradient distinction between polysemy and homonymy by using structured sets of features. Results conﬁrm that the present model correlates better with human data on novel word learning tasks than the existing feature-based model. 
Combinatory Categorial Grammar’s (CCG; Steedman, 2000) ﬂexible treatment of word order and constituency enable it to employ a compact lexicon, an important factor in its successful application to a range of NLP problems. However, its word order ﬂexibility can be problematic for linguistic phenomena where linear order plays a key role. In this paper, we show that the enhanced control over evaluation order afforded by Continuized CCG (Barker & Shan, 2014) makes it possible to not only implement an improved analysis of negative polarity items in Dynamic Continuized CCG (White et al., 2017) but also to develop an accurate treatment of balanced punctuation. 
In this research, we begin to tackle the challenge of natural language understanding (NLU) in the context of the development of a robot dialogue system. We explore the adequacy of Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) as a conduit for NLU. First, we consider the feasibility of using existing AMR parsers for automatically creating meaning representations for robot-directed transcribed speech data. We evaluate the quality of output of two parsers on this data against a manually annotated gold-standard data set. Second, we evaluate the semantic coverage and distinctions made in AMR overall: how well does it capture the meaning and distinctions needed in our collaborative human-robot dialogue domain? We ﬁnd that AMR has gaps that align with linguistic information critical for effective human-robot collaboration in search and navigation tasks, and we present task-speciﬁc modiﬁcations to AMR to address the deﬁciencies. 
We introduce a methodology built around a logical analysis component based on a hierarchy of classes of Subregular constraints characterized by the kinds of features of a string a mechanism must be sensitive to in order to determine whether it satisﬁes the constraint, and a computational component built around a publicly-available interactive workbench that implements, based on the equivalence between logical formulae and ﬁnitestate automata, a theorem prover for these logics (even algorithmically extracting certain classes of constraints), wherein the alternation between these logical and computational analyses can provide useful insight more easily than using either in isolation. We demonstrate this methodology by exploring a series of examples drawn from the StressTyp2 database (Goedemans et al., 2015) of patterns of lexical (suprasegmental) stress. Along the way we provide justiﬁcation for the underlying model-theoretic approach to formalizing phonotactic patterns and demonstrate the ways in which this dual methodology can be applied to a range of phonological issues. 
Neural models of Knowledge Base data have typically employed compositional representations of graph objects: entity and relation embeddings are systematically combined to evaluate the truth of a candidate Knowedge Base entry. Using a model inspired by Harmonic Grammar, we propose to tokenize triplet embeddings by subjecting them to a process of optimization with respect to learned wellformedness conditions on Knowledge Base triplets. The resulting model, known as Gradient Graphs, leads to sizable improvements when implemented as a companion to compositional models. Also, we show that the “supracompositional” triplet token embeddings it produces have interpretable properties that prove helpful in performing inference on the resulting triplet representations. 
Recent work suggests that the subregular complexity of syntax might be comparable to that of phonology and morphology. More specifically, whereas phonological and morphological dependencies are tier-based strictly local over strings, syntactic dependencies are tierbased strictly local over derivation trees. However, a broader range of empirical phenomena must be considered in order to solidify this claim. This paper investigates various phenomena related to morphological case, and we argue that they, too, are tier-based strictly local. Not only do our ﬁndings provide empirical support for a kind of computational parallelism across language modules, they also offer a new, computationally uniﬁed perspective of structural and lexical case. We hope that this paper will enable other researchers to fruitfully study syntactic phenomena from a subregular perspective. 
Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) are theoretically Turing-complete and established themselves as a dominant model for language processing. Yet, there still remains an uncertainty regarding their language learning capabilities. In this paper, we empirically evaluate the inductive learning capabilities of Long Short-Term Memory networks, a popular extension of simple RNNs, to learn simple formal languages, in particular anbn, anbncn, and anbncndn. We investigate the inﬂuence of various aspects of learning, such as training data regimes and model capacity, on the generalization to unobserved samples. We ﬁnd striking differences in model performances under different training settings and highlight the need for careful analysis and assessment when making claims about the learning capabilities of neural network models.1 
Verbs occur in different syntactic environments, or frames. We investigate whether artiﬁcial neural networks encode grammatical distinctions necessary for inferring the idiosyncratic frame-selectional properties of verbs. We introduce ﬁve datasets, collectively called FAVA, containing in aggregate nearly 10k sentences labeled for grammatical acceptability, illustrating different verbal argument structure alternations. We then test whether models can distinguish acceptable English verb–frame combinations from unacceptable ones using a sentence embedding alone. For converging evidence, we further construct LaVA, a corresponding word-level dataset, and investigate whether the same syntactic features can be extracted from word embeddings. Our models perform reliable classiﬁcations for some verbal alternations but not others, suggesting that while these representations do encode ﬁnegrained lexical information, it is incomplete or can be hard to extract. Further, differences between the word- and sentence-level models show that some information present in word embeddings is not passed on to the downstream sentence embeddings. 
Kunwinjku is an indigenous Australian language spoken in northern Australia which exhibits agglutinative and polysynthetic properties. Members of the community have expressed interest in co-developing language applications that promote their values and priorities. Modeling the morphology of the Kunwinjku language is an important step towards accomplishing the community{'}s goals. Finite State Transducers have long been the go-to method for modeling morphologically rich languages, and in this paper we discuss some of the distinct modeling challenges present in the morphosyntax of verbs in Kunwinjku. We show that a fairly straightforward implementation using standard features of the foma toolkit can account for much of the verb structure. Continuing challenges include robustness in the face of variation and unseen vocabulary, as well as how to handle complex reduplicative processes. Our future work will build off the baseline and challenges presented here.
In this paper, we adapt Deep-speare, a joint neural network model for English sonnets, to Chinese poetry. We illustrate characteristics of Chinese quatrain and explain our architecture as well as training and generation procedure, which differs from Shakespeare sonnets in several aspects. We analyse the generated poetry and find that model works well for Chinese poetry, as it can: (1) generate coherent 4-line quatrains of different topics; and (2) capture rhyme automatically (to a certain extent).
Optimal language acquisition via reading requires the learners to read slightly above their current language skill level. Identifying material at the right level is the essential role of automatic readability measurement. Short message platforms such as Twitter offer the opportunity for language practice while reading about current topics and engaging in conversation in small doses, and can be filtered according to linguistic criteria to suit the learner. In this research, we explore how readable tweets are for English language learners and which factors contribute to their readability. With participants from six language groups, we collected 14,659 data points, each representing a tweet from a pool of 4100 tweets, and a judgement of perceived readability. Traditional readability measures and features failed on the data-set, but demographic data showed that judgements were largely genuine and reflected reported language skill, which is consistent with other recent studies. We report on the properties of the data set and implications for future research.
We propose the ﬁrst multi-task learning model for joint Vietnamese word segmentation, partof-speech (POS) tagging and dependency parsing. In particular, our model extends the BIST graph-based dependency parser (Kiperwasser and Goldberg, 2016) with BiLSTMCRF-based neural layers (Huang et al., 2015) for word segmentation and POS tagging. On Vietnamese benchmark datasets, experimental results show that our joint model obtains stateof-the-art or competitive performances. 
The Tibetan language, despite being spoken by 8 million people, is a lowresource language in NLP terms, and research to develop NLP tools and resources for the language has only just begun. In this paper, we focus on Tibetan verbal morphology — which is known to be quite irregular — and introduce a novel dataset for Tibetan verbal paradigms, comprising 1,433 lemmas with corresponding inflected forms. This enables the largest-scale NLP investigation to date on Tibetan morphological reinflection, wherein we compare the performance of several state-of-the-art models for morphological reinflection, and conduct an extensive error analysis. We show that 84% of errors are due to the irregularity of the Tibetan language. 
The negative log-likelihood or cross entropy is the usual training objective of NLP models owing to its versatility and empirical performance. However, training objectives which directly target the performance measure used to evaluate the task have the potential to lead to higher empirical accuracy. For this reason, in this short paper we propose using a multi-constraint structured hinge loss as the training objective of a contemporary namedentity recognition (NER) model. Experimental results over the challenging OntoNotes 5.0 dataset have shown that the proposed objective has been able to achieve an improvement of 0.62 CoNLL score points at a complete parity of testing set-up. 
With the advent of neural models, there has been a rapid move away from feature engineering, or at best, simplistically combining handcrafted features with learned representations as side information. We propose a method that uses hand-crafted features to guide learning by explicitly attending to feature indicators when learning the relationship between the input and target variables. In experiments over two different tasks — quality assessment of Wikipedia articles and popularity prediction of online petitions— we demonstrate that the proposed method yields neural models that consistently outperform those that simply use hand-crafted features as side information. 
One of the most common metrics to automatically evaluate opinion summaries is ROUGE, a metric developed for text summarisation. ROUGE counts the overlap of word or word units between a candidate summary against reference summaries. This formulation treats all words in the reference summary equally.In opinion summaries, however, not all words in the reference are equally important. Opinion summarisation requires to correctly pair two types of semantic information: (1) aspect or opinion target; and (2) polarity of candidate and reference summaries. We investigate the suitability of ROUGE for evaluating opin-ion summaries of online reviews. Using three simulation-based experiments, we evaluate the behaviour of ROUGE for opinion summarisation on the ability to match aspect and polarity. We show that ROUGE cannot distinguish opinion summaries of similar or opposite polarities for the same aspect. Moreover,ROUGE scores have significant variance under different configuration settings. As a result, we present three recommendations for future work that uses ROUGE to evaluate opinion summarisation.
Politically-contested issues are often discussed with different emphases by different people. This emphasis is called a frame. In this paper, we examine the performance of classiﬁers trained using the media frames Corpus (MFC) (Card et al., 2015); a collection of US news labelled with ﬁfteen different frame categories. Speciﬁcally, we compare pre-trained language models (XLNet, Bert, and Roberta), ﬁne-tuned using MFC, against results from the literature and simpler models in their ability to predict frames from text. We also test these models on a new corpus that we have derived from Australian parliamentary speeches. Our experimental results ﬁrst show that the ﬁne-tuned models signiﬁcantly outperform the current best methods on MFC. We also show that the model ﬁne-tuned on US news articles can be convincingly applied to predict policy frames in Australian parliamentary speeches, though the accuracy is signiﬁcantly reduced, suggesting potential discrepancy in framing strategies and/or text usage between US News and Australian Parliamentary Speeches. 
Despite the success of attention-based neural models for natural language generation and classification tasks, they are unable to capture the discourse structure of larger documents. We hypothesize that explicit discourse representations have utility for NLP tasks over longer documents or document sequences, which sequence-to-sequence models are unable to capture. For abstractive summarization, for instance, conventional neural models simply match source documents and the summary in a latent space without explicit representation of text structure or relations. In this paper, we propose to use neural discourse representations obtained from a rhetorical structure theory (RST) parser to enhance document representations. Specifically, document representations are generated for discourse spans, known as the elementary discourse units (EDUs). We empirically investigate the benefit of the proposed approach on two different tasks: abstractive summarization and popularity prediction of online petitions. We find that the proposed approach leads to substantial improvements in all cases.
Catastrophic forgetting {---} whereby a model trained on one task is fine-tuned on a second, and in doing so, suffers a {``}catastrophic{''} drop in performance over the first task {---} is a hurdle in the development of better transfer learning techniques. Despite impressive progress in reducing catastrophic forgetting, we have limited understanding of how different architectures and hyper-parameters affect forgetting in a network. With this study, we aim to understand factors which cause forgetting during sequential training. Our primary finding is that CNNs forget less than LSTMs. We show that max-pooling is the underlying operation which helps CNNs alleviate forgetting compared to LSTMs. We also found that curriculum learning, placing a hard task towards the end of task sequence, reduces forgetting. We analysed the effect of fine-tuning contextual embeddings on catastrophic forgetting and found that using embeddings as feature extractor is preferable to fine-tuning in continual learning setup.
One key challenge for building a semantic parser in new domains is the difﬁculty to annotate new datasets. In this paper, we propose a sequential transfer learning method as a domain adaptation method to tackle this issue. We show that we can obtain a model with better generalisation on a small dataset by transferring network parameters from a model trained with a bigger dataset with similar meaning representations. We evaluate our model with different datasets as well as versions of the datasets with different difﬁculty levels. 
Semantic parsing targets at mapping human utterances into structured meaning representations, such as logical forms, programming snippets, SQL queries etc. In this work, we focus on logical form generation, which is extracted from an automated email assistant system. Since this task is dialogue-oriented, information across utterances must be well handled. Furthermore, certain inputs from users are used as arguments for the logical form, which requires a parser to distinguish the functional words and content words. Hence, an intelligent parser should be able to switch between generation mode and copy mode. In order to address the aforementioned issues, we equip the vanilla seq2seq model with a pointer network and a context-dependent architecture to generate more accurate logical forms. Our model achieves state-of-the-art performance on the email assistant task. 
Extracting chemical reactions from patents is a crucial task for chemists working on chemical exploration. In this paper we introduce the novel task of detecting the textual spans that describe or refer to chemical reactions within patents. We formulate this task as a paragraph-level sequence tagging problem, where the system is required to return a sequence of paragraphs which contain a description of a reaction. To address this new task, we construct an annotated dataset from an existing proprietary database of chemical reactions manually extracted from patents. We introduce several baseline methods for the task and evaluate them over our dataset. Through error analysis, we discuss what makes the task complex and challenging, and suggest possible directions for future research.
Pain is the main symptom that patients present with to the emergency department (ED). Pain management, however, is often poorly done aspect of emergency care and patients with painful conditions can endure long waits before their pain is assessed or treated. To improve pain management quality, identifying whether or not an ED patient presents with pain is an important task and allows for further investigation of the quality of care provided. In this paper, machine learning was utilised to handle the task of automatically detecting patients who present at EDs with pain from retrospective data. Experimental results on a manually annotated dataset show that our proposed machine learning models achieve high performances, in which the highest accuracy and macro-averaged F1 are 91.00{\%} and 90.96{\%}, respectively.
The first step towards designing an information system is conceptual modelling where domain experts and knowledge engineers identify the necessary information together to build an information system. Entity relationship modelling is one of the most popular conceptual modelling techniques that represents an information system in terms of entities, attributes and relationships. Entity relationship models are constructed graphically but are often difficult to understand by domain experts. To overcome this problem, we suggest to verbalise these models in a controlled natural language. In this paper, we present CNL-ER, a controlled natural language for specifying and verbalising entity relationship (ER) models that not only solves the verbalisation problem for these models but also provides the benefits of automatic verification and validation, and semantic round-tripping which makes the communication process transparent between the domain experts and the knowledge engineers.
Reading is important for any language learner, but the difficulty level of the text needs to match a reader{'}s level to enable efficient learning of new vocabulary. Many widely used traditional readability measures are not effective for those who speak English as a second or additional language. This study examines English readability for Vietnamese native speakers (VL1). A collection of text difficulty judgements of nearly 100 English text passages was obtained from 12 VL1 participants, using a 5-point Likert scale. Using the same basic features found in traditional English readability measures we found that SVMs and Dale-Chall features were slightly better than linear models using either Flesch or Dale-Chall. VL1 participants{'} text judgements were strongly correlated with their past IELTS test scores. This study introduces a first approximation to readability of English text for VL1, with suggestions for further improvements.
Women are underrepresented in many spheres of our societies, including research. A common excuse for exclusively male line-ups is that suitable women could not be found. One way of promoting visibility of women in industry and academia is to explicitly provide solutions to ﬁnd them. Expert Connect is a publicly searchable database of Australia’s researchers that now includes FindHer, a ﬁlter to ﬁnd women experts in any ﬁeld of research. In this industry paper, we evaluate Natural Language Processing and Computer Vision technologies for gender determination within the aim of automating gender proﬁle tagging for FindHer. We found current off-the-shelf tools are highly effective in detecting gender from names and photos. Nevertheless, a humanin-the-loop approach should be preferred to a fully automatic one, since ethical concerns might arise. 
Multi-Task Learning (MTL) has been an attractive approach to deal with limited labeled datasets or leverage related tasks, for a variety of NLP problems. We examine the benefit of MTL for three specific pairs of health informatics tasks that deal with: (a) overlapping symptoms for the same classification problem (personal health mention classification for influenza and for a set of symptoms); (b) overlapping medical concepts for related classification problems (vaccine usage and drug usage detection); and, (c) related classification problems (vaccination intent and vaccination relevance detection). We experiment with a simple neural architecture: a shared layer followed by task-specific dense layers. The novelty of this work is that it compares alternatives for shared layers for these pairs of tasks. While our observations agree with the promise of MTL as compared to single-task learning, for health informatics, we show that the benefit also comes with caveats in terms of the choice of shared layers and the relatedness between the participating tasks.
Many computer-assisted language learning (CALL) systems offer gap-ﬁll items, often with multiple choices in order to facilitate immediate feedback. Automatic distractor generation can therefore be helpful in providing the multiple choices. While existing algorithms focus on proposing the most plausible distractors, many realistic scenarios make use of distractors at a variety of difﬁculty levels. This paper evaluates the use of a neural language model to rank distractors in terms of difﬁculty. Experiments show that BERT outperforms semantic similarity measures, in terms of both correlation to human judgment and classiﬁcation accuracy of distractor plausibility. 
Transformer-based models have been popular recently and have improved performance for many Natural Language Processing (NLP) Tasks, including those in the biomedical ﬁeld. Previous research suggests that, when using these models, an in-domain vocabulary is more suitable than using an open-domain vocabulary. We investigate the effects of a specialised in-domain vocabulary trained from scratch on a biomedical corpus. Our research suggests that, although the in-domain vocabulary is useful, it is usually constrained by the corpora size because these models needs to be trained from scratch. Instead, it is more useful to have more data, perform additional pretraining steps with a corpus-speciﬁc vocabulary.1 
We propose a modular rule-based system for Text Simplification and show that it outperforms the state-of-the-art neural-based simplification system in terms of simplicity. We compare the output of both systems to highlight the differences between the two approaches. Further, we present an adaptation of our system to handle domainspecific tasks, where we employ a hybrid approach of our rule-based system and phrase-based machine translation to simplify medical discharge summaries in a low-resource situation. We compile a small medical simplification dataset to evaluate our proposed solution. 
The coarse-to-fine (coarse2fine) methods have recently been widely used in the generation tasks. The methods first generate a rough sketch in the coarse stage and then use the sketch to get the final result in the fine stage. However, they usually lack the correction ability when getting a wrong sketch. To solve this problem, in this paper, we propose an improved coarse2fine model with a control mechanism, with which our method can control the influence of the sketch on the final results in the fine stage. Even if the sketch is wrong, our model still has the opportunity to get a correct result. We have experimented our model on the tasks of semantic parsing and math word problem solving. The results have shown the effectiveness of our proposed model.
We propose a novel algorithm of graph-tostring alignment that constructs automata from a sample of string sequences. While being a variant of global edit distance, the algorithm also employs graph construction operations in order to form an optimal alignment. It allows dynamic insertion of edges and nodes driven by optimization of the best string-tograph alignment score. The algorithm may be used both to derive discrete non-deterministic acceptor (or a regular expression) and to build a probabilistic generative model of an input language. An outstanding ability to produce accurate approximate models from extremely sparse training sets constitutes the main advantage of the technique. 
We introduce SURel, a novel dataset with human-annotated meaning shifts between general-language and domain-specific contexts. We show that meaning shifts of term candidates cause errors in term extraction, and demonstrate that the SURel annotation reflects these errors. Furthermore, we illustrate that SURel enables us to assess optimisations of term extraction techniques when incorporating meaning shifts.
Usage similarity estimation addresses the semantic proximity of word instances in different contexts. We apply contextualized (ELMo and BERT) word and sentence embeddings to this task, and propose supervised models that leverage these representations for prediction. Our models are further assisted by lexical substitute annotations automatically assigned to word instances by context2vec, a neural model that relies on a bidirectional LSTM. We perform an extensive comparison of existing word and sentence representations on benchmark datasets addressing both graded and binary similarity.The best performing models outperform previous methods in both settings.
Most word embeddings today are trained by optimizing a language modeling goal of scoring words in their context, modeled as a multi-class classification problem. In this paper, we argue that, despite the successes of this assumption, it is incomplete: in addition to its context, orthographical or morphological aspects of words can offer clues about their meaning. We define a new modeling framework for training word embeddings that captures this intuition. Our framework is based on the well-studied problem of multi-label classification and, consequently, exposes several design choices for featurizing words and contexts, loss functions for training and score normalization. Indeed, standard models such as CBOW and fasttext are specific choices along each of these axes. We show via experiments that by combining feature engineering with embedding learning, our method can outperform CBOW using only 10{\%} of the training data in both the standard word embedding evaluations and also text classification experiments.
Various NLP problems {--} such as the prediction of sentence similarity, entailment, and discourse relations {--} are all instances of the same general task: the modeling of semantic relations between a pair of textual elements. A popular model for such problems is to embed sentences into fixed size vectors, and use composition functions (e.g. concatenation or sum) of those vectors as features for the prediction. At the same time, composition of embeddings has been a main focus within the field of Statistical Relational Learning (SRL) whose goal is to predict relations between entities (typically from knowledge base triples). In this article, we show that previous work on relation prediction between texts implicitly uses compositions from baseline SRL models. We show that such compositions are not expressive enough for several tasks (e.g. natural language inference). We build on recent SRL models to address textual relational problems, showing that they are more expressive, and can alleviate issues from simpler compositions. The resulting models significantly improve the state of the art in both transferable sentence representation learning and relation prediction.
Multi-relational semantic similarity datasets define the semantic relations between two short texts in multiple ways, e.g., similarity, relatedness, and so on. Yet, all the systems to date designed to capture such relations target one relation at a time. We propose a multi-label transfer learning approach based on LSTM to make predictions for several relations simultaneously and aggregate the losses to update the parameters. This multi-label regression approach jointly learns the information provided by the multiple relations, rather than treating them as separate tasks. Not only does this approach outperform the single-task approach and the traditional multi-task learning approach, but it also achieves state-of-the-art performance on all but one relation of the Human Activity Phrase dataset.
We develop and investigate several cross-lingual alignment approaches for neural sentence embedding models, such as the supervised inference classifier, InferSent, and sequential encoder-decoder models. We evaluate three alignment frameworks applied to these models: joint modeling, representation transfer learning, and sentence mapping, using parallel text to guide the alignment. Our results support representation transfer as a scalable approach for modular cross-lingual alignment of neural sentence embeddings, where we observe better performance compared to joint models in intrinsic and extrinsic evaluations, particularly with smaller sets of parallel data.
There is a growing awareness of the need to handle rare and unseen words in word representation modelling. In this paper, we focus on few-shot learning of emerging concepts that fully exploits only a few available contexts. We introduce a substitute-based context representation technique that can be applied on an existing word embedding space. Previous context-based approaches to modelling unseen words only consider bag-of-word first-order contexts, whereas our method aggregates contexts as second-order substitutes that are produced by a sequence-aware sentence completion model. We experimented with three tasks that aim to test the modelling of emerging concepts. We found that these tasks show different emphasis on first and second order contexts, and our substitute-based method achieves superior performance on naturally-occurring contexts from corpora.
Recent studies have shown that pre-trained contextual word embeddings, which assign the same word different vectors in different contexts, improve performance in many tasks. But while contextual embeddings can also be trained at the character level, the effectiveness of such embeddings has not been studied. We derive character-level contextual embeddings from Flair (Akbik et al., 2018), and apply them to a time normalization task, yielding major performance improvements over the previous state-of-the-art: 51{\%} error reduction in news and 33{\%} in clinical notes. We analyze the sources of these improvements, and find that pre-trained contextual character embeddings are more robust to term variations, infrequent terms, and cross-domain changes. We also quantify the size of context that pre-trained contextual character embeddings take advantage of, and show that such embeddings capture features like part-of-speech and capitalization.
Chatbots (i.e., bots) are becoming widely used in multiple domains, along with supporting bot programming platforms. These platforms are equipped with novel testing tools aimed at improving the quality of individual chatbots. Doing so requires an understanding of what sort of bots are being built (captured by their underlying conversation graphs) and how well they perform (derived through analysis of conversation logs). In this paper, we propose a new model, Bot2Vec, that embeds bots to a compact representation based on their structure and usage logs. Then, we utilize Bot2Vec representations to improve the quality of two bot analysis tasks. Using conversation data and graphs of over than 90 bots, we show that Bot2Vec representations improve detection performance by more than 16{\%} for both tasks.
Word embeddings have recently been shown to reflect many of the pronounced societal biases (e.g., gender bias or racial bias). Existing studies are, however, limited in scope and do not investigate the consistency of biases across relevant dimensions like embedding models, types of texts, and different languages. In this work, we present a systematic study of biases encoded in distributional word vector spaces: we analyze how consistent the bias effects are across languages, corpora, and embedding models. Furthermore, we analyze the cross-lingual biases encoded in bilingual embedding spaces, indicative of the effects of bias transfer encompassed in cross-lingual transfer of NLP models. Our study yields some unexpected findings, e.g., that biases can be emphasized or downplayed by different embedding models or that user-generated content may be less biased than encyclopedic text. We hope our work catalyzes bias research in NLP and informs the development of bias reduction techniques.
We introduce a novel topic modeling approach based on constructing a semantic set cover for clusters of similar documents. Specifically, our approach first clusters documents using their Tf-Idf representation, and then covers each cluster with a set of topic words based on semantic similarity, defined in terms of a word embedding. Computing a topic cover amounts to solving a minimum set cover problem. Our evaluation compares our topic modeling approach to Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) on three metrics: 1) qualitative topic match, measured using evaluations by Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) workers, 2) performance on classification tasks using each topic model as a sparse feature representation, and 3) topic coherence. We find that qualitative judgments significantly favor our approach, the method outperforms LDA on topic coherence, and is comparable to LDA on document classification tasks.
We introduce MCScript2.0, a machine comprehension corpus for the end-to-end evaluation of script knowledge. MCScript2.0 contains approx. 20,000 questions on approx. 3,500 texts, crowdsourced based on a new collection process that results in challenging questions. Half of the questions cannot be answered from the reading texts, but require the use of commonsense and, in particular, script knowledge. We give a thorough analysis of our corpus and show that while the task is not challenging to humans, existing machine comprehension models fail to perform well on the data, even if they make use of a commonsense knowledge base. The dataset is available at http://www.sfb1102. uni-saarland.de/?page{\_}id=2582
Multimodal semantic models that extend linguistic representations with additional perceptual input have proved successful in a range of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Recent research has successfully used neural methods to automatically create visual representations for words. However, these works have extracted visual features from complete images, and have not examined how different kinds of visual information impact performance. In contrast, we construct multimodal models that differentiate between internal visual properties of the objects and their external visual context. We evaluate the models on the task of decoding brain activity associated with the meanings of nouns, demonstrating their advantage over those based on complete images.
We present path2vec, a new approach for learning graph embeddings that relies on structural measures of pairwise node similarities. The model learns representations for nodes in a dense space that approximate a given user-defined graph distance measure, such as e.g. the shortest path distance or distance measures that take information beyond the graph structure into account. Evaluation of the proposed model on semantic similarity and word sense disambiguation tasks, using various WordNet-based similarity measures, show that our approach yields competitive results, outperforming strong graph embedding baselines. The model is computationally efficient, being orders of magnitude faster than the direct computation of graph-based distances.
Language use varies across different demographic factors, such as gender, age, and geographic location. However, most existing document classification methods ignore demographic variability. In this study, we examine empirically how text data can vary across four demographic factors: gender, age, country, and region. We propose a multitask neural model to account for demographic variations via adversarial training. In experiments on four English-language social media datasets, we find that classification performance improves when adapting for user factors.
Knowledge graphs, which provide numerous facts in a machine-friendly format, are incomplete. Information that we induce from such graphs {--} e.g. entity embeddings, relation representations or patterns {--} will be affected by the imbalance in the information captured in the graph {--} by biasing representations, or causing us to miss potential patterns. To partially compensate for this situation we describe a method for representing knowledge graphs that capture an intensional representation of the original extensional information. This representation is very compact, and it abstracts away from individual links, allowing us to find better path candidates, as shown by the results of link prediction using this information.
Negation often conveys implicit positive meaning. In this paper, we present a corpus of negations and their underlying positive interpretations. We work with negations from Simple Wikipedia, automatically generate potential positive interpretations, and then collect manual annotations that effectively rewrite the negation in positive terms. This procedure yields positive interpretations for approximately 77{\%} of negations, and the final corpus includes over 5,700 negations and over 5,900 positive interpretations. We also present baseline results using seq2seq neural models.
To model conditionals in a way that reflects their acceptability, we must include some means of making judgements about whether antecedent and consequent are meaningfully related or not. Enthymemes are non-logical arguments which do not hold up by themselves, but are acceptable through their relation to a topos, an already-known general principle or pattern for reasoning. This paper uses enthymemes and topoi as a way to model the world-knowledge behind these judgements. In doing so, it provides a reformalisation (in TTR) of enthymemes and topoi as networks rather than functions, and information state update rules for conditionals.
Temporal Dependency Trees are a structured temporal representation that represents temporal relations among time expressions and events in a text as a dependency tree structure. Compared to traditional pair-wise temporal relation representations, temporal dependency trees facilitate efficient annotations, higher inter-annotator agreement, and efficient computations. However, annotations on temporal dependency trees so far have only been done by expert annotators, which is costly and time-consuming. In this paper, we introduce a method to crowdsource temporal dependency tree annotations, and show that this representation is intuitive and can be collected with high accuracy and agreement through crowdsourcing. We produce a corpus of temporal dependency trees, and present a baseline temporal dependency parser, trained and evaluated on this new corpus.
Noise is inherent in real world datasets and modeling noise is critical during training as it is effective in regularization. Recently, novel semi-supervised deep learning techniques have demonstrated tremendous potential when learning with very limited labeled training data in image processing tasks. A critical aspect of these semi-supervised learning techniques is augmenting the input or the network with noise to be able to learn robust models. While modeling noise is relatively straightforward in continuous domains such as image classification, it is not immediately apparent how noise can be modeled in discrete domains such as language. Our work aims to address this gap by exploring different noise strategies for the semi-supervised named entity classification task, including statistical methods such as adding Gaussian noise to input embeddings, and linguistically-inspired ones such as dropping words and replacing words with their synonyms. We compare their performance on two benchmark datasets (OntoNotes and CoNLL) for named entity classification. Our results indicate that noise strategies that are linguistically informed perform at least as well as statistical approaches, while being simpler and requiring minimal tuning.
In order for coreference resolution systems to be useful in practice, they must be able to generalize to new text. In this work, we demonstrate that the performance of the state-of-the-art system decreases when the names of PER and GPE named entities in the CoNLL dataset are changed to names that do not occur in the training set. We use the technique of adversarial gradient-based training to retrain the state-of-the-art system and demonstrate that the retrained system achieves higher performance on the CoNLL dataset (both with and without the change of named entities) and the GAP dataset.
Human Needs categories have been used to characterize the reason why an affective event is positive or negative. For example, {``}I got the flu{''} and {``}I got fired{''} are both negative (undesirable) events, but getting the flu is a Health problem while getting fired is a Financial problem. Previous work created learning models to assign events to Human Needs categories based on their words and contexts. In this paper, we introduce an intermediate step that assigns words to relevant semantic concepts. We create lightly supervised models that learn to label words with respect to 10 semantic concepts associated with Human Needs categories, and incorporate these labels as features for event categorization. Our results show that recognizing relevant semantic concepts improves both the recall and precision of Human Needs categorization for events.
Word representations trained on text reproduce human implicit bias related to gender, race and age. Methods have been developed to remove such bias. Here, we present results that show that human stereotypes exist even for much more nuanced judgments such as personality, for a variety of person identities beyond the typically legally protected attributes and that these are similarly captured in word representations. Specifically, we collected human judgments about a person{'}s Big Five personality traits formed solely from information about the occupation, nationality or a common noun description of a hypothetical person. Analysis of the data reveals a large number of statistically significant stereotypes in people. We then demonstrate the bias captured in lexical representations is statistically significantly correlated with the documented human bias. Our results, showing bias for a large set of person descriptors for such nuanced traits put in doubt the feasibility of broadly and fairly applying debiasing methods and call for the development of new methods for auditing language technology systems and resources.
Semantic proto-role labeling (SPRL) is an alternative to semantic role labeling (SRL) that moves beyond a categorical definition of roles, following Dowty{'}s feature-based view of proto-roles. This theory determines agenthood vs. patienthood based on a participant{'}s instantiation of more or less typical agent vs. patient properties, such as, for example, volition in an event. To perform SPRL, we develop an ensemble of hierarchical models with self-attention and concurrently learned predicate-argument markers. Our method is competitive with the state-of-the art, overall outperforming previous work in two formulations of the task (multi-label and multi-variate Likert scale pre- diction). In contrast to previous work, our results do not depend on gold argument heads derived from supplementary gold tree banks.
We introduce a set of nine challenge tasks that test for the understanding of function words. These tasks are created by structurally mutating sentences from existing datasets to target the comprehension of specific types of function words (e.g., prepositions, wh-words). Using these probing tasks, we explore the effects of various pretraining objectives for sentence encoders (e.g., language modeling, CCG supertagging and natural language inference (NLI)) on the learned representations. Our results show that pretraining on CCG{---}our most syntactic objective{---}performs the best on average across our probing tasks, suggesting that syntactic knowledge helps function word comprehension. Language modeling also shows strong performance, supporting its widespread use for pretraining state-of-the-art NLP models. Overall, no pretraining objective dominates across the board, and our function word probing tasks highlight several intuitive differences between pretraining objectives, e.g., that NLI helps the comprehension of negation.
Large crowdsourced datasets are widely used for training and evaluating neural models on natural language inference (NLI). Despite these efforts, neural models have a hard time capturing logical inferences, including those licensed by phrase replacements, so-called monotonicity reasoning. Since no large dataset has been developed for monotonicity reasoning, it is still unclear whether the main obstacle is the size of datasets or the model architectures themselves. To investigate this issue, we introduce a new dataset, called HELP, for handling entailments with lexical and logical phenomena. We add it to training data for the state-of-the-art neural models and evaluate them on test sets for monotonicity phenomena. The results showed that our data augmentation improved the overall accuracy. We also find that the improvement is better on monotonicity inferences with lexical replacements than on downward inferences with disjunction and modification. This suggests that some types of inferences can be improved by our data augmentation while others are immune to it.
Popular Natural Language Inference (NLI) datasets have been shown to be tainted by hypothesis-only biases. Adversarial learning may help models ignore sensitive biases and spurious correlations in data. We evaluate whether adversarial learning can be used in NLI to encourage models to learn representations free of hypothesis-only biases. Our analyses indicate that the representations learned via adversarial learning may be less biased, with only small drops in NLI accuracy.
We present BIS, a Bayesian Inference Semantics, for probabilistic reasoning in natural language. The current system is based on the framework of Bernardy et al. (2018), but departs from it in important respects. BIS makes use of Bayesian learning for inferring a hypothesis from premises. This involves estimating the probability of the hypothesis, given the data supplied by the premises of an argument. It uses a syntactic parser to generate typed syntactic structures that serve as input to a model generation system. Sentences are interpreted compositionally to probabilistic programs, and the corresponding truth values are estimated using sampling methods. BIS successfully deals with various probabilistic semantic phenomena, including frequency adverbs, generalised quantifiers, generics, and vague predicates. It performs well on a number of interesting probabilistic reasoning tasks. It also sustains most classically valid inferences (instantiation, de Morgan{'}s laws, etc.). To test BIS we have built an experimental test suite with examples of a range of probabilistic and classical inference patterns.
We study pragmatics in political campaign text, through analysis of speech acts and the target of each utterance. We propose a new annotation schema incorporating domain-specific speech acts, such as commissive-action, and present a novel annotated corpus of media releases and speech transcripts from the 2016 Australian election cycle. We show how speech acts and target referents can be modeled as sequential classification, and evaluate several techniques, exploiting contextualized word representations, semi-supervised learning, task dependencies and speaker meta-data.
Incivility in public discourse has been a major concern in recent times as it can affect the quality and tenacity of the discourse negatively. In this paper, we present neural models that can learn to detect name-calling and vulgarity from a newspaper comment section. We show that in contrast to prior work on detecting toxic language, fine-grained incivilities like namecalling cannot be accurately detected by simple models like logistic regression. We apply the models trained on the newspaper comments data to detect uncivil comments in a Russian troll dataset, and find that despite the change of domain, the model makes accurate predictions.
Automatically generating animation from natural language text finds application in a number of areas e.g. movie script writing, instructional videos, and public safety. However, translating natural language text into animation is a challenging task. Existing text-to-animation systems can handle only very simple sentences, which limits their applications. In this paper, we develop a text-to-animation system which is capable of handling complex sentences. We achieve this by introducing a text simplification step into the process. Building on an existing animation generation system for screenwriting, we create a robust NLP pipeline to extract information from screenplays and map them to the system{'}s knowledge base. We develop a set of linguistic transformation rules that simplify complex sentences. Information extracted from the simplified sentences is used to generate a rough storyboard and video depicting the text. Our sentence simplification module outperforms existing systems in terms of BLEU and SARI metrics.We further evaluated our system via a user study: 68{\%} participants believe that our system generates reasonable animation from input screenplays.
Kazakh language, like other agglutinative languages, has specific difficulties on both recognition of wrong words and generation the corrections for misspelt words. The main goal of this work is to develop a better algorithm for the normalization of Kazakh texts based on traditional and Machine Learning methods, as well as the new approach which is also considered in this paper. The procedure of election among methods of normalization has been conducted in a manner of comparative analysis. The results of the comparative analysis turned up successful and are shown in details.
Social media platforms have become prime forums for reporting news, with users sharing what they saw, heard or read on social media. News from social media is potentially useful for various stakeholders including aid organizations, news agencies, and individuals. However, social media also contains a vast amount of non-news content. For users to be able to draw on benefits from news reported on social media it is necessary to reliably identify news content and differentiate it from non-news. In this paper, we tackle the challenge of classifying a social post as news or not. To this end, we provide a new manually annotated dataset containing 2,992 tweets from 5 different topical categories. Unlike earlier datasets, it includes postings posted by personal users who do not promote a business or a product and are not affiliated with any organization. We also investigate various baseline systems and evaluate their performance on the newly generated dataset. Our results show that the best classifiers are the SVM and BERT models.
African American Vernacular English (AAVE) is a widely-spoken dialect of English, yet it is under-represented in major speech corpora. As a result, speakers of this dialect are often misunderstood by NLP applications. This study explores the effect on transcription accuracy of an automatic voice recognition system when AAVE data is used. Models trained on AAVE data and on Standard American English data were compared to a baseline model trained on a combination of the two dialects. The accuracy for both dialect-specific models was significantly higher than the baseline model, with the AAVE model showing over 18{\%} improvement. By isolating the effect of having AAVE speakers in the training data, this study highlights the importance of increasing diversity in the field of natural language processing.
We assess the language specificity of recent language models by exploring the potential of a multilingual language model. In particular, we evaluate Google{'}s multilingual BERT (mBERT) model on Named Entity Recognition (NER) in German and English. We expand the work on language model fine-tuning by Howard and Ruder (2018), applying it to the BERT architecture. We successfully reproduce the NER results published by Devlin et al. (2019).Our results show that the multilingual language model generalises well for NER in the chosen languages, matching the native model in English and comparing well with recent approaches for German. However, it does not benefit from the added fine-tuning methods.
Parts of speech (POS) tagging is the process of assigning the part of speech tag to each and every word in a sentence. In this paper, we have presented POS tagger for Kannada, a low resource south Asian language, using Condition Random Fields. POS tagger developed in the work uses novel features native to Kannada language. The novel features include Sandhi splitting, where a compound word is broken down into two or more meaningful constituent words. The proposed model is trained and tested on the tagged dataset which contains 21 thousand sentences and achieves a highest accuracy of 94.56{\%}.
The paper presents several common approaches towards cross- and multi-lingual coreference resolution in a search of the most effective practices to be applied within the work on Bulgarian-English manual coreference annotation of a short story. The work aims at outlining the typology of the differences in the annotated parallel texts. The results of the research prove to be comparable with the tendencies observed in similar works on other Slavic languages and show surprising differences between the types of markables and their frequency in Bulgarian and English.
Verbalization of non-lexical linguistic units plays an important role in language modeling for automatic speech recognition systems. Most verbalization methods require valuable resources such as ground truth, large training corpus and expert knowledge which are often unavailable. On the other hand a considerable amount of audio data along with its transcribed text are freely available on the Internet and could be utilized for the task of verbalization. This paper presents a methodology for accurate verbalization of audio transcriptions based on phone-level alignment between the transcriptions and their corresponding audio recordings. Comparing this approach to a more general rule-based verbalization method shows a significant improvement in ASR recognition of non-lexical units. In the process of evaluating this approach we also expose the indirect influence of verbalization accuracy on the quality of acoustic models trained on automatically derived speech corpora.
This paper reports on experiments with different stacks of word embeddings and evaluation of their usefulness for Bulgarian downstream tasks such as Named Entity Recognition and Classification (NERC) and Part-of-speech (POS) Tagging. Word embeddings stay in the core of the development of NLP, with several key language models being created over the last two years like FastText (CITATION), ElMo (CITATION), BERT (CITATION) and Flair (CITATION). Stacking or combining different word embeddings is another technique used in this paper and still not reported for Bulgarian NERC. Well-established architecture is used for the sequence tagging task such as BI-LSTM-CRF, and different pre-trained language models are combined in the embedding layer to decide which combination of them scores better.
Recommender systems are an essential part of today{'}s largest websites. Without them, it would be hard for users to find the right products and content. One of the most popular methods for recommendations is content-based filtering. It relies on analysing product metadata, a great part of which is textual data. Despite their frequent use, there is still no standard procedure for developing and evaluating content-based recommenders. In this paper, we will first examine current approaches for designing, training and evaluating recommender systems based on textual data for books recommendations for GoodReads{'} website. We will give critiques on existing methods and suggest how natural language techniques can be employed for the improvement of content-based recommenders.
The paper describes three corpora of different varieties of BS that are currently being developed with the goal of providing data for the analysis of the diatopic and diachronic variation in non-standard Balkan Slavic. The corpora includes spoken materials from Torlak, Macedonian dialects, as well as the manuscripts of pre-standardized Bulgarian. Apart from the texts, tools for PoS annotation and lemmatization for all varieties are being created, as well as syntactic parsing for Torlak and Bulgarian varieties. The corpora are built using a unified methodology, relying on the pest practices and state-of-the-art methods from the field. The uniform methodology allows the contrastive analysis of the data from different varieties. The corpora under construction can be considered a crucial contribution to the linguistic research on the languages in the Balkans as they provide the lacking data needed for the studies of linguistic variation in the Balkan Slavic, and enable the comparison of the said varieties with other neighbouring languages.
Question answering (QA) systems permit the user to ask a question using natural language, and the system provides a concise and correct answer. QA systems can be implemented for different types of datasets, structured or unstructured. In this paper, some of the recent studies will be reviewed and the limitations will be discussed. Consequently, the current issues are analyzed with the proposed solutions.
This paper discusses some possible usages of one unexplored lexical language resource containing Bulgarian verb paradigms and their English translations. This type of data can be used for machine translation, generation of pseudo corpora/language exercises, and evaluation of parsers. Upon completion, the resource will be linked with other existing resources such as the morphological lexicon, valency lexicon, as well as BTB-WordNet.
The paper is about our experiments with Complex Word Identification system using deep learning approach with word embeddings and engineered features.
State-of-the-art machine reading comprehension models are capable of producing answers for factual questions about a given piece of text. However, some type of questions requires commonsense knowledge which cannot be inferred from the given text passage. Thus, external semantic information could enhance the performance of these models. This PhD research proposal provides a brief overview of some existing machine reading comprehension datasets and models and outlines possible ways of their improvement.
In this paper, we present a relationship extraction based methodology for table structure recognition in PDF documents. The proposed deep learning-based method takes a bottom-up approach to table recognition in PDF documents. We outline the shortcomings of conventional approaches based on heuristics and machine learning-based top-down approaches. In this work, we explain how the task of table structure recognition can be modeled as a cell relationship extraction task and the importance of the bottom-up approach in recognizing the table cells. We use Multilayer Feedforward Neural Network for table structure recognition and compare the results of three feature sets. To gauge the performance of the proposed method, we prepared a training dataset using 250 tables in PDF documents, carefully selecting the table structures that are most commonly found in the documents. Our model achieves an overall accuracy of 97.95{\%} and an F1-Score of 92.62{\%} on the test dataset.
Social media plays a great role in news dissemination which includes good and bad news. However, studies show that news, in general, has a significant impact on our mental stature and that this influence is more in bad news. An ideal situation would be that we have a tool that can help to filter out the type of news we do not want to consume. In this paper, we provide the basis for such a tool. In our work, we focus on Twitter. We release a manually annotated dataset containing 6,853 tweets from 5 different topical categories. Each tweet is annotated with good and bad labels. We also investigate various machine learning systems and features and evaluate their performance on the newly generated dataset. We also perform a comparative analysis with sentiments showing that sentiment alone is not enough to distinguish between good and bad news.
The quality of Neural Machine Translation (NMT), as a data-driven approach, massively depends on quantity, quality, and relevance of the training dataset. Such approaches have achieved promising results for bilingually high-resource scenarios but are inadequate for low-resource conditions. This paper describes a round-trip training approach to bilingual low-resource NMT that takes advantage of monolingual datasets to address training data scarcity, thus augmenting translation quality. We conduct detailed experiments on Persian-Spanish as a bilingually low-resource scenario. Experimental results demonstrate that this competitive approach outperforms the baselines.
Phrases play a key role in Machine Translation (MT). In this paper, we apply a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) model over conventional Phrase-Based Statistical MT (PBSMT). The core idea is to use an LSTM encoder-decoder to score the phrase table generated by the PBSMT decoder. Given a source sequence, the encoder and decoder are jointly trained in order to maximize the conditional probability of a target sequence. Analytically, the performance of a PBSMT system is enhanced by using the conditional probabilities of phrase pairs computed by an LSTM encoder-decoder as an additional feature in the existing log-linear model. We compare the performance of the phrase tables in the PBSMT to the performance of the proposed LSTM and observe its positive impact on translation quality. We construct a PBSMT model using the Moses decoder and enrich the Language Model (LM) utilizing an external dataset. We then rank the phrase tables using an LSTM-based encoder-decoder. This method produces a gain of up to 3.14 BLEU score on the test set.
Semantic role labeling (SRL) is an important task for understanding natural languages, where the objective is to analyse propositions expressed by the verb and to identify each word that bears a semantic role. It provides an extensive dataset to enhance NLP applications such as information retrieval, machine translation, information extraction, and question answering. However, creating SRL models are difficult. Even in some languages, it is infeasible to create SRL models that have predicate-argument structure due to lack of linguistic resources. In this paper, we present our method to create an automatic Turkish PropBank by exploiting parallel data from the translated sentences of English PropBank. Experiments show that our method gives promising results.
We propose a multilingual method for the extraction of biased sentences from Wikipedia, and use it to create corpora in Bulgarian, French and English. Sifting through the revision history of the articles that at some point had been considered biased and later corrected, we retrieve the last tagged and the first untagged revisions as the before/after snapshots of what was deemed a violation of Wikipedia{'}s neutral point of view policy. We extract the sentences that were removed or rewritten in that edit. The approach yields sufficient data even in the case of relatively small Wikipedias, such as the Bulgarian one, where 62k articles produced 5k biased sentences. We evaluate our method by manually annotating 520 sentences for Bulgarian and French, and 744 for English. We assess the level of noise and analyze its sources. Finally, we exploit the data with well-known classification methods to detect biased sentences. Code and datasets are hosted at https://github.com/crim-ca/wiki-bias.
Morphological segmentation of words is the process of dividing a word into smaller units called morphemes; it is tricky especially when a morphologically rich or polysynthetic language is under question. In this work, we designed and evaluated several Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) based models as well as various other machine learning based approaches for the morphological segmentation task. We trained our models using annotated segmentation lexicons. To evaluate the effect of the training data size on our models, we decided to create a large hand-annotated morphologically segmented corpus of Persian words, which is, to the best of our knowledge, the first and the only segmentation lexicon for the Persian language. In the experimental phase, using the hand-annotated Persian lexicon and two smaller similar lexicons for Czech and Finnish languages, we evaluated the effect of the training data size, different hyper-parameters settings as well as different RNN-based models.
Word Sense Induction (WSI) is the task of grouping of occurrences of an ambiguous word according to their meaning. In this work, we improve the approach to WSI proposed by Amrami and Goldberg (2018) based on clustering of lexical substitutes for an ambiguous word in a particular context obtained from neural language models. Namely, we propose methods for combining information from left and right context and similarity to the ambiguous word, which result in generating more accurate substitutes than the original approach. Our simple yet efficient improvement establishes a new state-of-the-art on WSI datasets for two languages. Besides, we show improvements to the original approach on a lexical substitution dataset.
For the spell correction task, vocabulary based methods have been replaced with methods that take morphological and grammar rules into account. However, such tools are fairly immature, and, worse, non-existent for many low resource languages. Checking only if a word is well-formed with respect to the morphological rules of a language may produce false negatives due to the ambiguity resulting from the presence of numerous homophonic words. In this work, we propose an approach to detect and correct the {``}de/da{''} clitic errors in Turkish text. Our model is a neural sequence tagger trained with a synthetically constructed dataset consisting of positive and negative samples. The model{'}s performance with this dataset is presented according to different word embedding configurations. The model achieved an F1 score of 86.67{\%} on a synthetically constructed dataset. We also compared the model{'}s performance on a manually curated dataset of challenging samples that proved superior to other spelling correctors with 71{\%} accuracy compared to the second-best (Google Docs) with and accuracy of 34{\%}.
Propaganda of various pressure groups ranging from big economies to ideological blocks is often presented in a form of objective newspaper texts. However, the real objectivity is here shaded with the support of imbalanced views and distorted attitudes by means of various manipulative stylistic techniques. In the project of Manipulative Propaganda Techniques in the Age of Internet, a new resource for automatic analysis of stylistic mechanisms for influencing the readers{'} opinion is developed. In its current version, the resource consists of 7,494 newspaper articles from four selected Czech digital news servers annotated for the presence of specific manipulative techniques. In this paper, we present the current state of the annotations and describe the structure of the dataset in detail. We also offer an evaluation of bag-of-words classification algorithms for the annotated manipulative techniques.
In the last few years, the increasing availability of large corpora spanning several time periods has opened new opportunities for the diachronic analysis of language. This type of analysis can bring to the light not only linguistic phenomena related to the shift of word meanings over time, but it can also be used to study the impact that societal and cultural trends have on this language change. This paper introduces a new resource for performing the diachronic analysis of named entities built upon Wikipedia page revisions. This resource enables the analysis over time of changes in the relations between entities (concepts), surface forms (words), and the contexts surrounding entities and surface forms, by analysing the whole history of Wikipedia internal links. We provide some useful use cases that prove the impact of this resource on diachronic studies and delineate some possible future usage.
Building multilingual ontologies is a hard task as ontologies are often data-rich resources. We introduce an approach which allows exploiting structured lexical semantic knowledge for the ontology building. Given a multilingual lexical semantic (non ontological) resource and an ontology model, it allows mining relevant semantic knowledge and make the ontology building and enhancement process faster.
Neural machine translation models have little inductive bias, which can be a disadvantage in low-resource scenarios. Neural models have to be trained on large amounts of data and have been shown to perform poorly when only limited data is available. We show that using naive regularization methods, based on sentence length, punctuation and word frequencies, to penalize translations that are very different from the input sentences, consistently improves the translation quality across multiple low-resource languages. We experiment with 12 language pairs, varying the training data size between 17k to 230k sentence pairs. Our best regularizer achieves an average increase of 1.5 BLEU score and 1.0 TER score across all the language pairs. For example, we achieve a BLEU score of 26.70 on the IWSLT15 English{--}Vietnamese translation task simply by using relative differences in punctuation as a regularizer.
We describe a new approach to semantic parsing based on Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG). The grammar{'}s semantic construction operators are defined in terms of a graph algebra, which allows our system to induce a compact CCG lexicon. We introduce an expectation maximisation algorithm which we use to filter our lexicon down to 2500 lexical templates. Our system achieves a semantic triple (Smatch) precision that is competitive with other CCG-based AMR parsing approaches.
While contextualized embeddings have produced performance breakthroughs in many Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) has not benefited from them yet. In this paper, we introduce QBERT, a Transformer-based architecture for contextualized embeddings which makes use of a co-attentive layer to produce more deeply bidirectional representations, better-fitting for the WSD task. As a result, we are able to train a WSD system that beats the state of the art on the concatenation of all evaluation datasets by over 3 points, also outperforming a comparable model using ELMo.
In this work, we address the evaluation of distributional semantic models trained on smaller, domain-specific texts, specifically, philosophical text. Specifically, we inspect the behaviour of models using a pre-trained background space in learning. We propose a measure of consistency which can be used as an evaluation metric when no in-domain gold-standard data is available. This measure simply computes the ability of a model to learn similar embeddings from different parts of some homogeneous data. We show that in spite of being a simple evaluation, consistency actually depends on various combinations of factors, including the nature of the data itself, the model used to train the semantic space, and the frequency of the learnt terms, both in the background space and in the in-domain data of interest.
Goal-Oriented Chatbots in fields such as customer support, providing certain information or general help with bookings or reservations, suffer from low performance partly due to the difficulty of obtaining large domain-specific annotated datasets. Given that the problem is closely related to the domain of the conversational agent and the data belonging to a specific domain is difficult to annotate, there have been some attempts at surpassing these challenges such as unsupervised pre-training or transfer learning between different domains. A more thorough analysis of the transfer learning mechanism is justified by the significant improvement of the results demonstrated in the results section. We describe extensive experiments using transfer learning and warm-starting techniques with improvements of more than 5{\%} in relative percentage of success rate in the majority of cases, and up to 10x faster convergence as opposed to training the system without them.
We present a novel and effective technique for performing text coherence tasks while facilitating deeper insights into the data. Despite obtaining ever-increasing task performance, modern deep-learning approaches to NLP tasks often only provide users with the final network decision and no additional understanding of the data. In this work, we show that a new type of sentence embedding learned through self-supervision can be applied effectively to text coherence tasks while serving as a window through which deeper understanding of the data can be obtained. To produce these sentence embeddings, we train a recurrent neural network to take individual sentences and predict their location in a document in the form of a distribution over locations. We demonstrate that these embeddings, combined with simple visual heuristics, can be used to achieve performance competitive with state-of-the-art on multiple text coherence tasks, outperforming more complex and specialized approaches. Additionally, we demonstrate that these embeddings can provide insights useful to writers for improving writing quality and informing document structuring, and assisting readers in summarizing and locating information.
This paper presents experiments in risk factors analysis based on clinical texts enhanced with Linked Open Data (LOD). The idea is to determine whether a patient has risk factors for a specific disease analyzing only his/her outpatient records. A semantic graph of {``}meta-knowledge{''} about a disease of interest is constructed, with integrated multilingual terms (labels) of symptoms, risk factors etc. coming from Wikidata, PubMed, Wikipedia and MESH, and linked to clinical records of individual patients via ICD{--}10 codes. Then a predictive model is trained to foretell whether patients are at risk to develop the disease of interest. The testing was done using outpatient records from a nation-wide repository available for the period 2011-2016. The results show improvement of the overall performance of all tested algorithms (kNN, Naive Bayes, Tree, Logistic regression, ANN), when the clinical texts are enriched with LOD resources.
Parallel sentences provide semantically similar information which can vary on a given dimension, such as language or register. Parallel sentences with register variation (like expert and non-expert documents) can be exploited for the automatic text simplification. The aim of automatic text simplification is to better access and understand a given information. In the biomedical field, simplification may permit patients to understand medical and health texts. Yet, there is currently no such available resources. We propose to exploit comparable corpora which are distinguished by their registers (specialized and simplified versions) to detect and align parallel sentences. These corpora are in French and are related to the biomedical area. Manually created reference data show 0.76 inter-annotator agreement. Our purpose is to state whether a given pair of specialized and simplified sentences is parallel and can be aligned or not. We treat this task as binary classification (alignment/non-alignment). We perform experiments with a controlled ratio of imbalance and on the highly unbalanced real data. Our results show that the method we present here can be used to automatically generate a corpus of parallel sentences from our comparable corpus.
The ability to produce high-quality publishable material is critical to academic success but many Post-Graduate students struggle to learn to do so. While recent years have seen an increase in tools designed to provide feedback on aspects of writing, one aspect that has so far been neglected is the Related Work section of academic research papers. To address this, we have trained a supervised classifier on a corpus of 94 Related Work sections and evaluated it against a manually annotated gold standard. The classifier uses novel features pertaining to citation types and co-reference, along with patterns found from studying Related Works. We show that these novel features contribute to classifier performance with performance being favourable compared to other similar works that classify author intentions and consider feedback for academic writing.
In this paper we study the performance of several text vectorization algorithms on a diverse collection of 73 publicly available datasets. Traditional sparse vectorizers like Tf-Idf and Feature Hashing have been systematically compared with the latest state of the art neural word embeddings like Word2Vec, GloVe, FastText and character embeddings like ELMo, Flair. We have carried out an extensive analysis of the performance of these vectorizers across different dimensions like classification metrics (.i.e. precision, recall, accuracy), dataset-size, and imbalanced data (in terms of the distribution of the number of class labels). Our experiments reveal that the sparse vectorizers beat the neural word and character embedding models on 61 of the 73 datasets by an average margin of 3-5{\%} (in terms of macro f1 score) and this performance is consistent across the different dimensions of comparison.
We present ARAP-Tweet 2.0, a corpus of 5 million dialectal Arabic tweets and 50 million words of about 3000 Twitter users from 17 Arab countries. Compared to the first version, the new corpus has significant improvements in terms of the data volume and the annotation quality. It is fully balanced with respect to dialect, gender, and three age groups: under 25 years, between 25 and 34, and 35 years and above. This paper describes the process of creating the corpus starting from gathering the dialectal phrases to find the users, to annotating their accounts and retrieving their tweets. We also report on the evaluation of the annotation quality using the inter-annotator agreement measures which were applied to the whole corpus and not just a subset. The obtained results were substantial with average Cohen{'}s Kappa values of 0.99, 0.92, and 0.88 for the annotation of gender, dialect, and age respectively. We also discuss some challenges encountered when developing this corpus.s.
In Natural Language Generation systems, personalization strategies - i.e, the use of information about a target author to generate text that (more) closely resembles human-produced language - have long been applied to improve results. The present work addresses one such strategy - namely, the use of Big Five personality information about the target author - applied to the case of abstractive text summarization using neural sequence-to-sequence models. Initial results suggest that having access to personality information does lead to more accurate (or human-like) text summaries, and paves the way for more robust systems of this kind.
Lack of labelled data in the target domain for training is a common problem in domain adaptation. To overcome this problem, we propose a novel unsupervised domain adaptation method that combines projection and self-training based approaches. Using the labelled data from the source domain, we first learn a projection that maximises the distance among the nearest neighbours with opposite labels in the source domain. Next, we project the source domain labelled data using the learnt projection and train a classifier for the target class prediction. We then use the trained classifier to predict pseudo labels for the target domain unlabelled data. Finally, we learn a projection for the target domain as we did for the source domain using the pseudo-labelled target domain data, where we maximise the distance between nearest neighbours having opposite pseudo labels. Experiments on a standard benchmark dataset for domain adaptation show that the proposed method consistently outperforms numerous baselines and returns competitive results comparable to that of SOTA including self-training, tri-training, and neural adaptations.
In this work, we propose to address the detection of negation and speculation, and of their scope, in French biomedical documents. It has been indeed observed that they play an important role and provide crucial clues for other NLP applications. Our methods are based on CRFs and BiLSTM. We reach up to 97.21 {\%} and 91.30 {\%} F-measure for the detection of negation and speculation cues, respectively, using CRFs. For the computing of scope, we reach up to 90.81 {\%} and 86.73 {\%} F-measure on negation and speculation, respectively, using BiLSTM-CRF fed with word embeddings.
We describe work consisting in porting various morphological resources to the OntoLex-Lemon model. A main objective of this work is to offer a uniform representation of different morphological data sets in order to be able to compare and interlink multilingual resources and to cross-check and interlink or merge the content of morphological resources of one and the same language. The results of our work will be published on the Linguistic Linked Open Data cloud.
In this paper, we propose a new Transformer neural machine translation (NMT) model that incorporates dependency relations into self-attention on both source and target sides, dependency-based self-attention. The dependency-based self-attention is trained to attend to the modifiee for each token under constraints based on the dependency relations, inspired by Linguistically-Informed Self-Attention (LISA). While LISA is originally proposed for Transformer encoder for semantic role labeling, this paper extends LISA to Transformer NMT by masking future information on words in the decoder-side dependency-based self-attention. Additionally, our dependency-based self-attention operates at sub-word units created by byte pair encoding. The experiments show that our model improves 1.0 BLEU points over the baseline model on the WAT{'}18 Asian Scientific Paper Excerpt Corpus Japanese-to-English translation task.
Online media aim for reaching ever bigger audience and for attracting ever longer attention span. This competition creates an environment that rewards sensational, fake, and toxic news. To help limit their spread and impact, we propose and develop a news toxicity detector that can recognize various types of toxic content. While previous research primarily focused on English, here we target Bulgarian. We created a new dataset by crawling a website that for five years has been collecting Bulgarian news articles that were manually categorized into eight toxicity groups. Then we trained a multi-class classifier with nine categories: eight toxic and one non-toxic. We experimented with different representations based on ElMo, BERT, and XLM, as well as with a variety of domain-specific features. Due to the small size of our dataset, we created a separate model for each feature type, and we ultimately combined these models into a meta-classifier. The evaluation results show an accuracy of 59.0{\%} and a macro-F1 score of 39.7{\%}, which represent sizable improvements over the majority-class baseline (Acc=30.3{\%}, macro-F1=5.2{\%}).
We deal with the pseudonymization of those stretches of text in emails that might allow to identify real individual persons. This task is decomposed into two steps. First, named entities carrying privacy-sensitive information (e.g., names of persons, locations, phone numbers or dates) are identified, and, second, these privacy-bearing entities are replaced by synthetically generated surrogates (e.g., a person originally named {`}John Doe{'} is renamed as {`}Bill Powers{'}). We describe a system architecture for surrogate generation and evaluate our approach on CodeAlltag, a German email corpus.
This paper introduces a new approach to estimating the text document complexity. Common readability indices are based on average length of sentences and words. In contrast to these methods, we propose to count the number of rare words occurring abnormally often in the document. We use the reference corpus of texts and the quantile approach in order to determine what words are rare, and what frequencies are abnormal. We construct a general text complexity model, which can be adjusted for the specific task, and introduce two special models. The experimental design is based on a set of thematically similar pairs of Wikipedia articles, labeled using crowdsourcing. The experiments demonstrate the competitiveness of the proposed approach.
The massive amount of multi-formatted information available on the Web necessitates the design of software systems that leverage this information to obtain knowledge that is valid and useful. The main challenge is to discover relevant information and continuously update, enrich and integrate knowledge from various sources of structured and unstructured data. This paper presents the Learning Engine Through Ontologies(LETO) framework, an architecture for the continuous and incremental discovery of knowledge from multiple sources of unstructured and structured data. We justify the main design decision behind LETO{'}s architecture and evaluate the framework{'}s feasibility using the Internet Movie Data Base(IMDB) and Twitter as a practical application.
In this paper, we report on the extrinsic evaluation of an automatic sentence simplification method with respect to two NLP tasks: semantic role labelling (SRL) and information extraction (IE). The paper begins with our observation of challenges in the intrinsic evaluation of sentence simplification systems, which motivates the use of extrinsic evaluation of these systems with respect to other NLP tasks. We describe the two NLP systems and the test data used in the extrinsic evaluation, and present arguments and evidence motivating the integration of a sentence simplification step as a means of improving the accuracy of these systems. Our evaluation reveals that their performance is improved by the simplification step: the SRL system is better able to assign semantic roles to the majority of the arguments of verbs and the IE system is better able to identify fillers for all IE template slots.
We introduce OlloBot, an Arabic conversational agent that assists physicians and supports patients with the care process. It doesn{'}t replace the physicians, instead provides health tracking and support and assists physicians with the care delivery through a conversation medium. The current model comprises healthy diet, physical activity, mental health, in addition to food logging. Not only OlloBot tracks user daily food, it also offers useful tips for healthier living. We will discuss the design, development and testing of OlloBot, and highlight the findings and limitations arose from the testing.
This paper presents a full procedure for the development of a segmented, POS-tagged and chunkparsed corpus of Old Tibetan. As an extremely low-resource language, Old Tibetan poses non-trivial problems in every step towards the development of a searchable treebank. We demonstrate, however, that a carefully developed, semisupervised method of optimising and extending existing tools for Classical Tibetan, as well as creating specific ones for Old Tibetan can address these issues. We thus also present the first very Tibetan Treebank in a variety of formats to facilitate research in the fields of NLP, historical linguistics and Tibetan Studies.
In the context of text summarization, texts in the legal domain have peculiarities related to their length and to their specialized vocabulary. Recent neural network-based approaches can achieve high-quality scores for text summarization. However, these approaches have been used mostly for generating very short abstracts for news articles. Thus, their applicability to the legal domain remains an open issue. In this work, we experimented with ten extractive and four abstractive models in a real dataset of legal rulings. These models were compared with an extractive baseline based on heuristics to select the most relevant parts of the text. Our results show that abstractive approaches significantly outperform extractive methods in terms of ROUGE scores.
This paper presents a pilot study of entropy as a measure of gap complexity in open cloze tests aimed at learners of English. Entropy is used to quantify the information content in each gap, which can be used to estimate complexity. Our study shows that average gap entropy correlates positively with proficiency levels while individual gap entropy can capture contextual complexity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first unsupervised information-theoretical approach to evaluating the quality of cloze tests.
Given the peculiar structure of songs, applying generic text summarization methods to lyrics can lead to the generation of highly redundant and incoherent text. In this paper, we propose to enhance state-of-the-art text summarization approaches with a method inspired by audio thumbnailing. Instead of searching for the thumbnail clues in the audio of the song, we identify equivalent clues in the lyrics. We then show how these summaries that take into account the audio nature of the lyrics outperform the generic methods according to both an automatic evaluation and human judgments.
The Parental Advisory Label (PAL) is a warning label that is placed on audio recordings in recognition of profanity or inappropriate references, with the intention of alerting parents of material potentially unsuitable for children. Since 2015, digital providers {--} such as iTunes, Spotify, Amazon Music and Deezer {--} also follow PAL guidelines and tag such tracks as {``}explicit{''}. Nowadays, such labelling is carried out mainly manually on voluntary basis, with the drawbacks of being time consuming and therefore costly, error prone and partly a subjective task. In this paper, we compare automated methods ranging from dictionary-based lookup to state-of-the-art deep neural networks to automatically detect explicit contents in English lyrics. We show that more complex models perform only slightly better on this task, and relying on a qualitative analysis of the data, we discuss the inherent hardness and subjectivity of the task.
In this paper, we present new methods for language classification which put to good use both syntax and fuzzy tools, and are capable of dealing with irrelevant linguistic features (i.e. features which should not contribute to the classification) and even inconsistent features (which do not make sense for specific languages). We introduce a metric distance, based on the generalized Steinhaus transform, which allows one to deal jointly with irrelevance and inconsistency. To evaluate our methods, we test them on a syntactic data set, due to the linguist G. Longobardi and his school. We obtain phylogenetic trees which sometimes outperform the ones obtained by Atkinson and Gray.
This paper describes a set of tools that offers comprehensive solutions for corpus lexicography. The tools perform a range of tasks, including construction of corpus lexicon, integrating information from external dictionaries, internal analysis of the lexicon, and lexical analysis of the corpus. The set of tools is particularly useful for creating dictionaries for under-resourced languages. The tools are integrated in a general-purpose software that includes additional tools for various research tasks, such as linguistic development analysis. Equipped with a user-friendly interface, the described system can be easily incorporated in research in a variety of fields.
This paper describes an automatic text-to-phonetics conversion system. The system was constructed to primarily serve as a research tool. It is implemented in a general-purpose linguistic software, which allows it to be incorporated in a multifaceted linguistic research in essentially any language. The system currently relies on two mechanisms to generate phonetic transcriptions from texts: (i) importing ready-made phonetic word forms from external dictionaries, and (ii) automatic generation of phonetic word forms based on a set of deterministic linguistic rules. The current paper describes the proposed system and its potential application to linguistic research.
We explore anatomy of answers with respect to which text fragments from an answer are worth matching with a question and which should not be matched. We apply the Rhetorical Structure Theory to build a discourse tree of an answer and select elementary discourse units that are suitable for indexing. Manual rules for selection of these discourse units as well as automated classification based on web search engine mining are evaluated con-cerning improving search accuracy. We form two sets of question-answer pairs for FAQ and community QA search domains and use them for evaluation of the proposed indexing methodology, which delivers up to 16 percent improvement in search recall.
We introduce a concept of a virtual discourse tree to improve question answering (Q/A) recall for complex, multi-sentence questions. Augmenting the discourse tree of an answer with tree fragments obtained from text corpora playing the role of ontology, we obtain on the fly a canonical discourse representation of this answer that is independent of the thought structure of a given author. This mechanism is critical for finding an answer that is not only relevant in terms of questions entities but also in terms of inter-relations between these entities in an answer and its style. We evaluate the Q/A system enabled with virtual discourse trees and observe a substantial increase of performance answering complex questions such as Yahoo! Answers and www.2carpros.com.
We present a chatbot that delivers content in the form of virtual dialogues automatically produced from the plain texts that are extracted and selected from the documents. This virtual dialogue content is provided in the form of answers derived from the found and selected documents split into fragments, and questions that are automatically generated for these answers based on the initial text.
Every day, the emotion and opinion of different people across the world are reflected in the form of short messages using microblogging platforms. Despite the existence of enormous potential introduced by this data source, the Twitter community is still ambiguous and is not fully explored yet. While there are a huge number of studies examining the possibilities of inferring gender and age, there exist hardly researches on socioeconomic status (SES) inference of Twitter users. As socioeconomic status is essential to treating diverse questions linked to human behavior in several fields (sociology, demography, public health, etc.), we conducted a comprehensive literature review of SES studies, inference methods, and metrics. With reference to the research on literature{'}s results, we came to outline the most critical challenges for researchers. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first review that introduces the different aspects of SES inference. Indeed, this article provides the benefits for practitioners who aim to process and explore Twitter SES inference.
Proposition extraction from sentences is an important task for information extraction systems Evaluation of such systems usually conflates two aspects: splitting complex sentences into clauses and the extraction of propositions. It is thus difficult to independently determine the quality of the proposition extraction step. We create a manually annotated proposition dataset from sentences taken from restaurant reviews that distinguishes between clauses that need to be split and those that do not. The resulting proposition evaluation dataset allows us to independently compare the performance of proposition extraction systems on simple and complex clauses. Although performance drastically drops on more complex sentences, we show that the same systems perform best on both simple and complex clauses. Furthermore, we show that specific kinds of subordinate clauses pose difficulties to most systems.
The study explores application of a simple Convolutional Neural Network for the problem of authorship attribution of tweets written in Polish. In our solution we use two-step compression of tweets using Byte Pair Encoding algorithm and vectorisation as an input to the distributional model generated for the large corpus of Polish tweets by word2vec algorithm. Our method achieves results comparable to the state-of-the-art approaches for the similar task on English tweets and expresses a very good performance in the classification of Polish tweets. We tested the proposed method in relation to the number of authors and tweets per author. We also juxtaposed results for authors with different topic backgrounds against each other.
We present a novel approach to automatic question answering that does not depend on the performance of an information retrieval (IR) system and does not require that the training data come from the same source as the questions. We evaluate the system performance on a challenging set of university-level medical science multiple-choice questions. Best performance is achieved when combining a neural approach with an IR approach, both of which work independently. Unlike previous approaches, the system achieves statistically significant improvement over the random guess baseline even for questions that are labeled as challenging based on the performance of baseline solvers.
Since deep learning became a key player in natural language processing (NLP), many deep learning models have been showing remarkable performances in a variety of NLP tasks. Such high performance can be explained by efficient knowledge representation of deep learning models. Knowledge distillation from pretrained deep networks suggests that we can use more information from the soft target probability to train other neural networks. In this paper, we propose a self-knowledge distillation method, based on the soft target probabilities of the training model itself, where multimode information is distilled from the word embedding space right below the softmax layer. Due to the time complexity, our method approximates the soft target probabilities. In experiments, we applied the proposed method to two different and fundamental NLP tasks: language model and neural machine translation. The experiment results show that our proposed method improves performance on the tasks.
A great deal of historical corpora suffer from errors introduced by the OCR (optical character recognition) methods used in the digitization process. Correcting these errors manually is a time-consuming process and a great part of the automatic approaches have been relying on rules or supervised machine learning. We present a fully automatic unsupervised way of extracting parallel data for training a character-based sequence-to-sequence NMT (neural machine translation) model to conduct OCR error correction.
Terminology translation plays a critical role in domain-specific machine translation (MT). In this paper, we conduct a comparative qualitative evaluation on terminology translation in phrase-based statistical MT (PB-SMT) and neural MT (NMT) in two translation directions: English-to-Hindi and Hindi-to-English. For this, we select a test set from a legal domain corpus and create a gold standard for evaluating terminology translation in MT. We also propose an error typology taking the terminology translation errors into consideration. We evaluate the MT systems{'} performance on terminology translation, and demonstrate our findings, unraveling strengths, weaknesses, and similarities of PB-SMT and NMT in the area of term translation.
Recently, reading comprehension models achieved near-human performance on large-scale datasets such as SQuAD, CoQA, MS Macro, RACE, etc. This is largely due to the release of pre-trained contextualized representations such as BERT and ELMo, which can be fine-tuned for the target task. Despite those advances and the creation of more challenging datasets, most of the work is still done for English. Here, we study the effectiveness of multilingual BERT fine-tuned on large-scale English datasets for reading comprehension (e.g., for RACE), and we apply it to Bulgarian multiple-choice reading comprehension. We propose a new dataset containing 2,221 questions from matriculation exams for twelfth grade in various subjects {---}history, biology, geography and philosophy{---}, and 412 additional questions from online quizzes in history. While the quiz authors gave no relevant context, we incorporate knowledge from Wikipedia, retrieving documents matching the combination of question + each answer option. Moreover, we experiment with different indexing and pre-training strategies. The evaluation results show accuracy of 42.23{\%}, which is well above the baseline of 24.89{\%}.
Word embeddings are established as very effective models used in several NLP applications. If they differ in their architecture and training process, they often exhibit similar properties and remain vector space models with continuously-valued dimensions describing the observed data. The complexity resides in the developed strategies for learning the values within each dimensional space. In this paper, we introduce the concept of disruption which we define as a side effect of the training process of embedding models. Disruptions are viewed as a set of embedding values that are more likely to be noise than effective descriptive features. We show that dealing with disruption phenomenon is of a great benefit to bottom-up sentence embedding representation. By contrasting several in-domain and pre-trained embedding models, we propose two simple but very effective tweaking techniques that yield strong empirical improvements on textual similarity task.
Word embedding models are now widely used in most NLP applications. Despite their effectiveness, there is no clear evidence about the choice of the most appropriate model. It often depends on the nature of the task and on the quality and size of the used data sets. This remains true for bottom-up sentence embedding models. However, no straightforward investigation has been conducted so far. In this paper, we propose a systematic study of the impact of the main word embedding models on sentence representation. By contrasting in-domain and pre-trained embedding models, we show under which conditions they can be jointly used for bottom-up sentence embeddings. Finally, we propose the first bottom-up meta-embedding representation at the sentence level for textual similarity. Significant improvements are observed in several tasks including question-to-question similarity, paraphrasing and next utterance ranking.
Researchers use wordnets as a knowledge base in many natural language processing tasks and applications, such as question answering, textual entailment, discourse classification, and so forth. Lexico-semantic relations among words or concepts are important parts of knowledge encoded in wordnets. As the use of wordnets becomes extensively widespread, extending the existing ones gets more attention. Manually construction and extension of lexico-semantic relations for WordNets or knowledge graphs are very time-consuming. Using automatic relation extraction methods can speed up this process. In this study, we exploit an ensemble of lstm and convolutional neural networks in a supervised manner to capture lexico-semantic relations which can either be used directly in NLP applications or compose the edges of wordnets. The whole procedure of learning vector space representation of relations is language independent. We used Princeton WordNet 3.1, FarsNet 3.0 (the Persian wordnet), Root09 and EVALution as golden standards to evaluate the predictive performance of our model and the results are comparable on the two languages. Empirical results demonstrate that our model outperforms the state of the art models.
Recently research in opinions summarization focuses on rating expressions by aspects and/or sentiments they carry. To extract aspects of an expression, most studies require a predefined list of aspects or at least the number of aspects. Instead of extracting aspects, we rate expressions by aspect similarity recognition (ASR), which evaluates whether two expressions share at least one aspect. This subtask relaxes the limitation of predefining aspects and makes our opinions summarization applicable in domain adaptation. For the ASR subtask, we propose an attention-cell LSTM model, which integrates attention signals into the LSTM gates. According to the experimental results, the attention-cell LSTM works efficiently for learning latent aspects between two sentences in both settings of in-domain and cross-domain. In addition, the proposed extractive summarization method using ASR shows significant improvements over baselines on the Opinosis corpus.
Discourse relations between sentences are often represented as a tree, and the tree structure provides important information for summarizers to create a short and coherent summary. However, current neural network-based summarizers treat the source document as just a sequence of sentences and ignore the tree-like discourse structure inherent in the document. To incorporate the information of a discourse tree structure into the neural network-based summarizers, we propose a discourse-aware neural extractive summarizer which can explicitly take into account the discourse dependency tree structure of the source document. Our discourse-aware summarizer can jointly learn the discourse structure and the salience score of a sentence by using novel hierarchical attention modules, which can be trained on automatically parsed discourse dependency trees. Experimental results showed that our model achieved competitive or better performances against state-of-the-art models in terms of ROUGE scores on the DailyMail dataset. We further conducted manual evaluations. The results showed that our approach also gained the coherence of the output summaries.
We approach the problem of POS tagging of morphologically rich languages in a setting where only a small amount of labeled training data is available. We show that a bigram HMM tagger benefits from re-training on a larger untagged text using Baum-Welch estimation. Most importantly, this estimation can be significantly improved by pre-guessing tags for OOV words based on morphological criteria. We consider two models for this task: a character-based recurrent neural network, which guesses the tag from the string form of the word, and a recently proposed graph-based model of morphological transformations. In the latter, the unknown POS tags can be modeled as latent variables in a way very similar to Hidden Markov Tree models and an analogue of the Forward-Backward algorithm can be formulated, which enables us to compute expected values over unknown taggings. We evaluate both the quality of the induced tag lexicon and its impact on the HMM{'}s tagging accuracy. In both tasks, the graph-based morphology model performs significantly better than the RNN predictor. This confirms the intuition that morphologically related words provide useful information about an unknown word{'}s POS tag.
Extracting features and writing styles from short text messages is always a challenge. Short messages, like tweets, do not have enough data to perform statistical authorship attribution. Besides, the vocabulary used in these texts is sometimes improvised or misspelled. Therefore, in this paper, we propose combining four feature extraction techniques namely character n-grams, word n-grams, Flexible Patterns and a new sub-word embedding using the skip-gram model. Our system uses a Multi-Layer Perceptron to utilize these features from tweets to analyze short text messages. This proposed system achieves 85{\%} accuracy, which is a considerable improvement over previous systems.
This paper describes a novel, syntax-based system for automatic detection and resolution of Noun Phrase Ellipsis (NPE) in English. The system takes in free input English text, detects the site of nominal elision, and if present, selects potential antecedent candidates. The rules are built using the syntactic information on ellipsis and its antecedent discussed in previous theoretical linguistics literature on NPE. Additionally, we prepare a curated dataset of 337 sentences from well-known, reliable sources, containing positive and negative samples of NPE. We split this dataset into two parts, and use one part to refine our rules and the other to test the performance of our final system. We get an F1-score of 76.47{\%} for detection and 70.27{\%} for NPE resolution on the testset. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first system that detects and resolves NPE in English. The curated dataset used for this task, albeit small, covers a wide variety of NPE cases and will be made public for future work.
Researchers in Computational Linguistics build models of similarity and test them against human judgments. Although there are many empirical studies of the computational models of similarity for the English language, the similarity for other languages is less explored. In this study we are chiefly interested in two aspects. In the first place we want to know how much of the human similarity is grounded in the visual perception. To answer this question two neural computer vision models are used and their correlation with the human derived similarity scores is computed. In the second place we investigate if language influences the similarity computation. To this purpose diverse computational models trained on Estonian resources are evaluated against human judgments
In this paper we address the problem of detecting Twitter bots. We analyze a dataset of 8385 Twitter accounts and their tweets consisting of both humans and different kinds of bots. We use this data to train machine learning classifiers that distinguish between real and bot accounts. We identify features that are easy to extract while still providing good results. We analyze different feature groups based on account specific, tweet specific and behavioral specific features and measure their performance compared to other state of the art bot detection methods. For easy future portability of our work we focus on language-agnostic features. With AdaBoost, the best performing classifier, we achieve an accuracy of 0.988 and an AUC of 0.995. As the creation of good training data in machine learning is often difficult - especially in the domain of Twitter bot detection - we additionally analyze to what extent smaller amounts of training data lead to useful results by reviewing cross-validated learning curves. Our results indicate that using few but expressive features already has a good practical benefit for bot detection, especially if only a small amount of training data is available.
In this article, we present a novel multi-domain dataset of Polish text reviews, annotated with sentiment on different levels: sentences and the whole documents. The annotation was made by linguists in a 2+1 scheme (with inter-annotator agreement analysis). We present a preliminary approach to the classification of labelled data using logistic regression, bidirectional long short-term memory recurrent neural networks (BiLSTM) and bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT).
In this paper, we present a new approach for the evaluation, error analysis, and interpretation of supervised and unsupervised Paraphrase Identification (PI) systems. Our evaluation framework makes use of a PI corpus annotated with linguistic phenomena to provide a better understanding and interpretation of the performance of various PI systems. Our approach allows for a qualitative evaluation and comparison of the PI models using human interpretable categories. It does not require modification of the training objective of the systems and does not place additional burden on the developers. We replicate several popular supervised and unsupervised PI systems. Using our evaluation framework we show that: 1) Each system performs differently with respect to a set of linguistic phenomena and makes qualitatively different kinds of errors; 2) Some linguistic phenomena are more challenging than others across all systems.
Machine Translation systems have drastically improved over the years for several language pairs. Monolingual data is often used to generate synthetic sentences to augment the training data which has shown to improve the performance of machine translation models. In our paper, we make use of an Unsupervised Statistical Machine Translation (USMT) to generate synthetic sentences. Our study compares the performance improvements in Neural Machine Translation model when using synthetic sentences from supervised and unsupervised Machine Translation models. Our approach of using USMT for backtranslation shows promise in low resource conditions and achieves an improvement of 3.2 BLEU score over the Neural Machine Translation model.
The paper describes a computational approach to produce functionally comparable monolingual corpus resources for translation studies and contrastive analysis. We exploit a text-external approach, based on a set of Functional Text Dimensions to model text functions, so that each text can be represented as a vector in a multidimensional space of text functions. These vectors can be used to find reasonably homogeneous subsets of functionally similar texts across different corpora. Our models for predicting text functions are based on recurrent neural networks and traditional feature-based machine learning approaches. In addition to using the categories of the British National Corpus as our test case, we investigated the functional comparability of the English parts from the two parallel corpora: CroCo (English-German) and RusLTC (English-Russian) and applied our models to define functionally similar clusters in them. Our results show that the Functional Text Dimensions provide a useful description for text categories, while allowing a more flexible representation for texts with hybrid functions.
This paper presents proof-of-concept experiments for combining orthographic and semantic information to distinguish cognates from non-cognates. To this end, a context-independent gold standard is developed by manually labelling English-Dutch pairs of cognates and false friends in bilingual term lists. These annotated cognate pairs are then used to train and evaluate a supervised binary classification system for the automatic detection of cognates. Two types of information sources are incorporated in the classifier: fifteen string similarity metrics capture form similarity between source and target words, while word embeddings model semantic similarity between the words. The experimental results show that even though the system already achieves good results by only incorporating orthographic information, the performance further improves by including semantic information in the form of embeddings.
In this paper we give in detail how a resource rich language can be used for resolving pronouns for a less resource language. The source language, which is resource rich language in this study, is Tamil and the resource poor language is Malayalam, both belonging to the same language family, Dravidian. The Pronominal resolution developed for Tamil uses CRFs. Our approach is to leverage the Tamil language model to test Malayalam data and the processing required for Malayalam data is detailed. The similarity at the syntactic level between the languages is exploited in identifying the features for developing the Tamil language model. The word form or the lexical item is not considered as a feature for training the CRFs. Evaluation on Malayalam Wikipedia data shows that our approach is correct and the results, though not as good as Tamil, but comparable.
We build the first full pipeline for semantic role labelling of Russian texts. The pipeline implements predicate identification, argument extraction, argument classification (labeling), and global scoring via integer linear programming. We train supervised neural network models for argument classification using Russian semantically annotated corpus {--} FrameBank. However, we note that this resource provides annotations only to a very limited set of predicates. We combat the problem of annotation scarcity by introducing two models that rely on different sets of features: one for {``}known{''} predicates that are present in the training set and one for {``}unknown{''} predicates that are not. We show that the model for {``}unknown{''} predicates can alleviate the lack of annotation by using pretrained embeddings. We perform experiments with various types of embeddings including the ones generated by deep pretrained language models: word2vec, FastText, ELMo, BERT, and show that embeddings generated by deep pretrained language models are superior to classical shallow embeddings for argument classification of both {``}known{''} and {``}unknown{''} predicates.
This paper outlines procedures for enhancing WordNet with conceptual information from FrameNet. The mapping of the two resources is non-trivial. We define a number of techniques for the validation of the consistency of the mapping and the extension of its coverage which make use of the structure of both resources and the systematic relations between synsets in WordNet and between frames in FrameNet, as well as between synsets and frames). We present a case study on causativity, a relation which provides enhancement complementary to the one using hierarchical relations, by means of linking in a systematic way large parts of the lexicon. We show how consistency checks and denser relations may be implemented on the basis of this relation. We, then, propose new frames based on causative-inchoative correspondences and in conclusion touch on the possibilities for defining new frames based on the types of specialisation that takes place from parent to child synset.
Language is used to describe concepts, and many of these concepts are hierarchical. Moreover, this hierarchy should be compatible with forming phrases and sentences. We use linear-algebraic methods that allow us to encode words as collections of vectors. The representations we use have an ordering, related to subspace inclusion, which we interpret as modelling hierarchical information. The word representations built can be understood within a compositional distributional semantic framework, providing methods for composing words to form phrase and sentence level representations. We show that the resulting representations give competitive results on both word-level hyponymy and sentence-level entailment datasets.
Relation Extraction (RE) consists in detecting and classifying semantic relations between entities in a sentence. The vast majority of the state-of-the-art RE systems relies on morphosyntactic features and supervised machine learning algorithms. This paper tries to answer important questions concerning both the impact of semantic based features, and the integration of external linguistic knowledge resources on RE performance. For that, a RE system based on a logical and relational learning algorithm was used and evaluated on three reference datasets from two distinct domains. The yielded results confirm that the classifiers induced using the proposed richer feature set outperformed the classifiers built with morphosyntactic features in average 4{\%} (F1-measure).
Mental health is one of the main concerns of today{'}s society. Early detection of symptoms can greatly help people with mental disorders. People are using social networks more and more to express emotions, sentiments and mental states. Thus, the treatment of this information using NLP technologies can be applied to the automatic detection of mental problems such as eating disorders. However, the first step to solving the problem should be to provide a corpus in order to evaluate our systems. In this paper, we specifically focus on detecting anorexia messages on Twitter. Firstly, we have generated a new corpus of tweets extracted from different accounts including anorexia and non-anorexia messages in Spanish. The corpus is called SAD: Spanish Anorexia Detection corpus. In order to validate the effectiveness of the SAD corpus, we also propose several machine learning approaches for automatically detecting anorexia symptoms in the corpus. The good results obtained show that the application of textual classification methods is a promising option for developing this kind of system demonstrating that these tools could be used by professionals to help in the early detection of mental problems.
The paper presents NLC, a new formalism for modeling natural language (NL) compositionality. NLC is a functional type system (i.e. one based on mathematical functions and their types). Its main features include a close correspondence with NL and an integrated modeling of morphological, syntactic and semantic compositionality. The integration is effected with a subclass of compound types (types which are syntactic compounds of multiple types or their terms), while the correspondence is sought with function types and polymorphism. The paper also presents an implementation of NLC in Coq. The implementation formalizes a diverse fragment of NL, with NLC expressions type checking and failing to type check in exactly the same ways that NL expressions pass and fail their acceptability tests. Among other things, this demonstrates the possibility of reducing morphological, syntactic and semantic compositionality to a single level of description. The level is tentatively identified with semantic compositionality {---} an interpretation which, besides being supported by results from language processing, has interesting implications on NL structure and modeling.
In this paper, we present our work on developing a vocabulary trainer that uses exercises generated from language resources such as ConceptNet and crowdsources the responses of the learners to enrich the language resource. We performed an empirical evaluation of our approach with 60 non-native speakers over two days, which shows that new entries to expand Concept-Net can efficiently be gathered through vocabulary exercises on word relations. We also report on the feedback gathered from the users and an expert from language teaching, and discuss the potential of the vocabulary trainer application from the user and language learner perspective. The feedback suggests that v-trel has educational potential, while in its current state some shortcomings could be identified.
An author{'}s way of presenting a story through his/her writing style has a great impact on whether the story will be liked by readers or not. In this paper, we learn representations for authors of literary texts together with representations for character n-grams annotated with their functional roles. We train a neural character n-gram based language model using an external corpus of literary texts and transfer learned representations for use in downstream tasks. We show that augmenting the knowledge from external works of authors produces results competitive with other style-based methods for book likability prediction, genre classification, and authorship attribution.
End-to-end neural approaches are becoming increasingly common in conversational scenarios due to their promising performances when provided with sufficient amount of data. In this paper, we present a novel methodology to address the interpretability of neural approaches in such scenarios by creating challenge datasets using dialogue self-play over multiple tasks/intents. Dialogue self-play allows generating large amount of synthetic data; by taking advantage of the complete control over the generation process, we show how neural approaches can be evaluated in terms of unseen dialogue patterns. We propose several out-of-pattern test cases each of which introduces a natural and unexpected user utterance phenomenon. As a proof of concept, we built a single and a multiple memory network, and show that these two architectures have diverse performances depending on the peculiar dialogue patterns.
Text classification field of natural language processing has been experiencing remarkable growth in recent years. Especially, sentiment analysis has received a considerable attention from both industry and research community. However, only a few research examples exist for Azerbaijani language. The main objective of this research is to apply various machine learning algorithms for determining the sentiment of news articles in Azerbaijani language. Approximately, 30.000 social news articles have been collected from online news sites and labeled manually as negative or positive according to their sentiment categories. Initially, text preprocessing was implemented to data in order to eliminate the noise. Secondly, to convert text to a more machine-readable form, BOW (bag of words) model has been applied. More specifically, two methodologies of BOW model, which are tf-idf and frequency based model have been used as vectorization methods. Additionally, SVM, Random Forest, and Naive Bayes algorithms have been applied as the classification algorithms, and their combinations with two vectorization approaches have been tested and analyzed. Experimental results indicate that SVM outperforms other classification algorithms.
In the paper we present the latest changes introduce to Inforex {---} a web-based system for qualitative and collaborative text corpora annotation and analysis. One of the most important news is the release of source codes. Now the system is available on the GitHub repository (https://github.com/CLARIN-PL/Inforex) as an open source project. The system can be easily setup and run in a Docker container what simplifies the installation process. The major improvements include: semi-automatic text annotation, multilingual text preprocessing using CLARIN-PL web services, morphological tagging of XML documents, improved editor for annotation attribute, batch annotation attribute editor, morphological disambiguation, extended word sense annotation. This paper contains a brief description of the mentioned improvements. We also present two use cases in which various Inforex features were used and tested in real-life projects.
In this paper, we describe the process of creating a statistical Language Model (LM) for the Tunisian Dialect. Indeed, this work is part of the realization of Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system for the Tunisian Railway Transport Network. Since our eld of work has been limited, there are several words with similar behaviors (semantic for example) but they do not have the same appearance probability; their class groupings will therefore be possible. For these reasons, we propose to build an n-class LM that is based mainly on the integration of purely semantic data. Indeed, each class represents an abstraction of similar labels. In order to improve the sequence labeling task, we proposed to use a discriminative algorithm based on the Conditional Random Field (CRF) model. To better judge our choice of creating an n-class word model, we compared the created model with the 3-gram type model on the same test corpus of evaluation. Additionally, to assess the impact of using the CRF model to perform the semantic labelling task in order to construct semantic classes, we compared the n-class created model with using the CRF in the semantic labelling task and the n- class model without using the CRF in the semantic labelling task. The drawn comparison of the predictive power of the n-class model obtained by applying the CRF model in the semantic labelling is that it is better than the other two models presenting the highest value of its perplexity.
The absence of diacritical marks in the Arabic texts generally leads to morphological, syntactic and semantic ambiguities. This can be more blatant when one deals with under-resourced languages, such as the Tunisian dialect, which suffers from unavailability of basic tools and linguistic resources, like sufficient amount of corpora, multilingual dictionaries, morphological and syntactic analyzers. Thus, this language processing faces greater challenges due to the lack of these resources. The automatic diacritization of MSA text is one of the various complex problems that can be solved by deep neural networks today. Since the Tunisian dialect is an under-resourced language of MSA and as there are a lot of resemblance between both languages, we suggest to investigate a recurrent neural network (RNN) for this dialect diacritization problem. This model will be compared to our previous models models CRF and SMT (CITATION) based on the same dialect corpus. We can experimentally show that our model can achieve better outcomes (DER of 10.72{\%}), as compared to the two models CRF (DER of 20.25{\%}) and SMT (DER of 33.15{\%}).
One of the main characteristics of social media data is the use of non-standard language. Since NLP tools have been trained on traditional text material their performance drops when applied to social media data. One way to overcome this is to first perform text normalization. In this work, we apply text normalization to noisy English and Dutch text coming from different social media genres: text messages, message board posts and tweets. We consider the normalization task as a Machine Translation problem and test the two leading paradigms: statistical and neural machine translation. For SMT we explore the added value of varying background corpora for training the language model. For NMT we have a look at data augmentation since the parallel datasets we are working with are limited in size. Our results reveal that when relying on SMT to perform the normalization it is beneficial to use a background corpus that is close to the genre you are normalizing. Regarding NMT, we find that the translations - or normalizations - coming out of this model are far from perfect and that for a low-resource language like Dutch adding additional training data works better than artificially augmenting the data.
Fake reviews are increasingly prevalent across the Internet. They can be unethical as well as harmful. They can affect businesses and mislead individual customers. As the opinions on the Web are increasingly used the detection of fake reviews has become more and more critical. In this study, we explore the effectiveness of sentiment and emotions based representations for the task of building machine learning models for fake review detection. We perform empirical studies over three real world datasets and demonstrate that improved data representation can be achieved by combining sentiment and emotion extraction methods, as well as by performing sentiment and emotion analysis on a part-by-part basis by segmenting the reviews.
While high quality gold standard annotated corpora are crucial for most tasks in natural language processing, many annotated corpora published in recent years, created by annotators or tools, contains noisy annotations. These corpora can be viewed as more silver than gold standards, even if they are used in evaluation campaigns or to compare systems{'} performances. As upgrading a silver corpus to gold level is still a challenge, we explore the application of active learning techniques to detect errors using four datasets designed for document classification and part-of-speech tagging. Our results show that the proposed method for the seeding step improves the chance of finding incorrect annotations by a factor of 2.73 when compared to random selection, a 14.71{\%} increase from the baseline methods. Our query method provides an increase in the error detection precision on average by a factor of 1.78 against random selection, an increase of 61.82{\%} compared to other query approaches.
With recent efforts in drawing attention to the task of replicating and/or reproducing results, for example in the context of COLING 2018 and various LREC workshops, the question arises how the NLP community views the topic of replicability in general. Using a survey, in which we involve members of the NLP community, we investigate how our community perceives this topic, its relevance and options for improvement. Based on over two hundred participants, the survey results confirm earlier observations, that successful reproducibility requires more than having access to code and data. Additionally, the results show that the topic has to be tackled from the authors{'}, reviewers{'} and community{'}s side.
Building representative linguistic resources and NLP tools for non-standardized languages is challenging: when spelling is not determined by a norm, multiple written forms can be encountered for a given word, inducing a large proportion of out-of-vocabulary words. To embrace this diversity, we propose a methodology based on crowdsourced alternative spellings we use to extract rules applied to match OOV words with one of their spelling variants. This virtuous process enables the unsupervised augmentation of multi-variant lexicons without expert rule definition. We apply this multilingual methodology on Alsatian, a French regional language and provide an intrinsic evaluation of the correctness of the variants pairs, and an extrinsic evaluation on a downstream task. We show that in a low-resource scenario, 145 inital pairs can lead to the generation of 876 additional variant pairs, and a diminution of OOV words improving the part-of-speech tagging performance by 1 to 4{\%}.
Word meaning change can be inferred from drifts of time-varying word embeddings. However, temporal data may be too sparse to build robust word embeddings and to discriminate significant drifts from noise. In this paper, we compare three models to learn diachronic word embeddings on scarce data: incremental updating of a Skip-Gram from Kim et al. (2014), dynamic filtering from Bamler {\&} Mandt (2017), and dynamic Bernoulli embeddings from Rudolph {\&} Blei (2018). In particular, we study the performance of different initialisation schemes and emphasise what characteristics of each model are more suitable to data scarcity, relying on the distribution of detected drifts. Finally, we regularise the loss of these models to better adapt to scarce data.
This paper proposes a partially deterministic morphological analysis method for improved processing speed. Maximum matching is a fast deterministic method for morphological analysis. However, the method tends to decrease performance due to lack of consideration of contextual information. In order to use maximum matching safely, we propose the use of Context Independent Strings (CISs), which are strings that do not have ambiguity in terms of morphological analysis. Our method first identifies CISs in a sentence using maximum matching without contextual information, then analyzes the unprocessed part of the sentence using a bi-gram-based morphological analysis model. We evaluate the method on a Japanese morphological analysis task. The experimental results show a 30{\%} reduction of running time while maintaining improved accuracy.
Languages may be differently distant from each other and their mutual intelligibility may be asymmetric. In this paper we introduce incom.py, a toolbox for calculating linguistic distances and asymmetries between related languages. incom.py allows linguist experts to quickly and easily perform statistical analyses and compare those with experimental results. We demonstrate the efficacy of incom.py in an incomprehension experiment on two Slavic languages: Bulgarian and Russian. Using incom.py we were able to validate three methods to measure linguistic distances and asymmetries: Levenshtein distance, word adaptation surprisal, and conditional entropy as predictors of success in a reading intercomprehension experiment.
With the ever-growing generation of data for the Semantic Web comes an increasing demand for this data to be made available to non-semantic Web experts. One way of achieving this goal is to translate the languages of the Semantic Web into natural language. We present LD2NL, a framework that allows verbalizing the three key languages of the Semantic Web, i.e., RDF, OWL, and SPARQL. Our framework is based on a bottom-up approach to verbalization. We evaluated LD2NL in an open survey with 86 persons. Our results suggest that our framework can generate verbalizations that are close to natural languages and that can be easily understood by non-experts. Therewith, it enables non-domain experts to interpret Semantic Web data with more than 91{\%} of the accuracy of domain experts.
Information on drug administration is obtained traditionally from doctors and pharmacists, as well as leaflets which provide in most cases cumbersome and hard-to-follow details. Thus, the need for medical knowledge bases emerges to provide access to concrete and well-structured information which can play an important role in informing patients. This paper introduces a Romanian medical knowledge base focused on drug-drug interactions, on representing relevant drug information, and on symptom-disease relations. The knowledge base was created by extracting and transforming information using Natural Language Processing techniques from both structured and unstructured sources, together with manual annotations. The resulting Romanian ontologies are aligned with larger English medical ontologies. Our knowledge base supports queries regarding drugs (e.g., active ingredients, concentration, expiration date), drug-drug interaction, symptom-disease relations, as well as drug-symptom relations.
We propose a simple method for post-processing the outputs of a text summarization system in order to refine its overall quality. Our approach is to train text-to-text rewriting models to correct information redundancy errors that may arise during summarization. We train on synthetically generated noisy summaries, testing three different types of noise that introduce out-of-context information within each summary. When applied on top of extractive and abstractive summarization baselines, our summary denoising models yield metric improvements while reducing redundancy.
We propose a simple unsupervised method for extracting pseudo-parallel monolingual sentence pairs from comparable corpora representative of two different text styles, such as news articles and scientific papers. Our approach does not require a seed parallel corpus, but instead relies solely on hierarchical search over pre-trained embeddings of documents and sentences. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method through automatic and extrinsic evaluation on text simplification from the normal to the Simple Wikipedia. We show that pseudo-parallel sentences extracted with our method not only supplement existing parallel data, but can even lead to competitive performance on their own.
This paper proposes a new Transformer neural machine translation model that incorporates syntactic distances between two source words into the relative position representations of the self-attention mechanism. In particular, the proposed model encodes pair-wise relative depths on a source dependency tree, which are differences between the depths of the two source words, in the encoder{'}s self-attention. The experiments show that our proposed model achieves 0.5 point gain in BLEU on the Asian Scientific Paper Excerpt Corpus Japanese-to-English translation task.
Images and text represent types of content which are used together for conveying user emotions in online social networks. These contents are usually associated with a sentiment category. In this paper, we investigate an approach for mapping images to text for three types of sentiment categories: positive, neutral and negative. The mapping from images to text is performed using a Kernel Ridge Regression model. We considered two types of image features: i) RGB pixel-values features, and ii) features extracted with a deep learning approach. The experimental evaluation was performed on a Twitter data set containing both text and images and the sentiment associated with these. The experimental results show a difference in performance for different sentiment categories, in particular the mapping that we propose performs better for the positive sentiment category in comparison with the neutral and negative ones. Furthermore, the experimental results show that the more complex deep learning features perform better than the RGB pixel-value features for all sentiment categories and for larger training sets.
This study is an attempt to contribute to documentation and revitalization efforts of endangered Laz language, a member of South Caucasian language family mainly spoken on northeastern coastline of Turkey. It constitutes the first steps to create a general computational model for word form recognition and production for Laz by building a rule-based morphological analyser using Helsinki Finite-State Toolkit (HFST). The evaluation results show that the analyser has a 64.9{\%} coverage over a corpus collected for this study with 111,365 tokens. We have also performed an error analysis on randomly selected 100 tokens from the corpus which are not covered by the analyser, and these results show that the errors mostly result from Turkish words in the corpus and missing stems in our lexicon.
Very short texts, such as tweets and invoices, present challenges in classification. Although term occurrences are strong indicators of content, in very short texts, the sparsity of these texts makes it difficult to capture important semantic relationships. A solution calls for a method that not only considers term occurrence, but also handles sparseness well. In this work, we introduce such an approach, the Term Based Semantic Clusters (TBSeC) that employs terms to create distinctive semantic concept clusters. These clusters are ranked using a semantic similarity function which in turn defines a semantic feature space that can be used for text classification. Our method is evaluated in an invoice classification task. Compared to well-known content representation methods the proposed method performs competitively.
The detection of quotations (i.e., reported speech, thought, and writing) has established itself as an NLP analysis task. However, state-of-the-art models have been developed on the basis of specific corpora and incorpo- rate a high degree of corpus-specific assumptions and knowledge, which leads to fragmentation. In the spirit of task-agnostic modeling, we present a corpus-agnostic neural model for quotation detection and evaluate it on three corpora that vary in language, text genre, and structural assumptions. The model (a) approaches the state-of-the-art on the corpora when using established feature sets and (b) shows reasonable performance even when us- ing solely word forms, which makes it applicable for non-standard (i.e., historical) corpora.
In today{'}s digital world of information, a fact verification system to disprove assertions made in speech, print media or online content is the need of the hour. We propose a system which would verify a claim against a source and classify the claim to be true, false, out-of-context or an inappropriate claim with respect to the textual source provided to the system. A true label is used if the claim is true, false if it is false, if the claim has no relation with the source then it is classified as out-of-context and if the claim cannot be verified at all then it is classified as inappropriate. This would help us to verify a claim or a fact as well as know about the source or our knowledge base against which we are trying to verify our facts. We used a two-step approach to achieve our goal. At first, we retrieved evidence related to the claims from the textual source using the Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency(TF-IDF) vectors. Later we classified the claim-evidence pairs as true, false, inappropriate and out of context using a modified version of textual entailment module. Textual entailment module calculates the probability of each sentence supporting the claim, contradicting the claim or not providing any relevant information using Bi-LSTM network to assess the veracity of the claim. The accuracy of the best performing system is 64.49{\%}
This paper presents Semantic Neural Networks (SNNs), a knowledge-aware component based on deep learning. SNNs can be trained to encode explicit semantic knowledge from an arbitrary knowledge base, and can subsequently be combined with other deep learning architectures. At prediction time, SNNs provide a semantic encoding extracted from the input data, which can be exploited by other neural network components to build extended representation models that can face alternative problems. The SNN architecture is defined in terms of the concepts and relations present in a knowledge base. Based on this architecture, a training procedure is developed. Finally, an experimental setup is presented to illustrate the behaviour and performance of a SNN for a specific NLP problem, in this case, opinion mining for the classification of movie reviews.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models achieve their best performance when large sets of parallel data are used for training. Consequently, techniques for augmenting the training set have become popular recently. One of these methods is back-translation, which consists on generating synthetic sentences by translating a set of monolingual, target-language sentences using a Machine Translation (MT) model. Generally, NMT models are used for back-translation. In this work, we analyze the performance of models when the training data is extended with synthetic data using different MT approaches. In particular we investigate back-translated data generated not only by NMT but also by Statistical Machine Translation (SMT) models and combinations of both. The results reveal that the models achieve the best performances when the training set is augmented with back-translated data created by merging different MT approaches.
One of the challenges during a task-oriented chatbot development is the scarce availability of the labeled training data. The best way of getting one is to ask the assessors to tag each dialogue according to its intent. Unfortunately, performing labeling without any provisional collection structure is difficult since the very notion of the intent is ill-defined. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical multimodal regularized topic model to obtain a first approximation of the intent set. Our rationale for hierarchical models usage is their ability to take into account several degrees of the dialogues relevancy. We attempt to build a model that can distinguish between subject-based (e.g. medicine and transport topics) and action-based (e.g. filing of an application and tracking application status) similarities. In order to achieve this, we divide set of all features into several groups according to part-of-speech analysis. Various feature groups are treated differently on different hierarchy levels.
Lexical resources such as WordNet (Miller, 1995) and FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998) are organized as graphs, where relationships between words are made explicit via the structure of the resource. This work explores how structural information from these lexical resources can lead to gains in a downstream task, namely frame identification. While much of the current work in frame identification uses various neural architectures to predict frames, those neural architectures only use representations of frames based on annotated corpus data. We demonstrate how incorporating knowledge directly from the FrameNet graph structure improves the performance of a neural network-based frame identification system. Specifically, we construct a bidirectional LSTM with a loss function that incorporates various graph- and corpus-based frame embeddings for learning and ultimately achieves strong performance gains with the graph-based embeddings over corpus-based embeddings alone.
This paper introduces several improvements over the current state of the art in knowledge-based word sense disambiguation. Those innovations are the result of modifying and enriching a knowledge base created originally on the basis of WordNet. They reflect several separate but connected strategies: manipulating the shape and the content of the knowledge base, assigning weights over the relations in the knowledge base, and the addition of new relations to it. The main contribution of the paper is to demonstrate that the previously proposed knowledge bases organize linguistic and world knowledge suboptimally for the task of word sense disambiguation. In doing so, the paper also establishes a new state of the art for knowledge-based approaches. Its best models are competitive in the broader context of supervised systems as well.
The translation of ambiguous words still poses challenges for machine translation. In this work, we carry out a systematic quantitative analysis regarding the ability of different machine translation systems to disambiguate the source language conjunctions {``}but{''} and {``}and{''}. We evaluate specialised test sets focused on the translation of these two conjunctions. The test sets contain source languages that do not distinguish different variants of the given conjunction, whereas the target languages do. In total, we evaluate the conjunction {``}but{''} on 20 translation outputs, and the conjunction {``}and{''} on 10. All machine translation systems almost perfectly recognise one variant of the target conjunction, especially for the source conjunction {``}but{''}. The other target variant, however, represents a challenge for machine translation systems, with accuracy varying from 50{\%} to 95{\%} for {``}but{''} and from 20{\%} to 57{\%} for {``}and{''}. The major error for all systems is replacing the correct target variant with the opposite one.
We present a live cross-lingual system capable of producing shallow semantic annotations of natural language sentences for 51 languages at this time. The domain of the input sentences is in principle unconstrained. The system uses single training data (in English) for all the languages. The resulting semantic annotations are therefore consistent across different languages. We use CoNLL Semantic Role Labeling training data and Universal dependencies as the basis for the system. The system is publicly available and supports processing data in batches; therefore, it can be easily used by the community for the following research tasks.
Fake news detection and closely-related fact-checking have recently attracted a lot of attention. Automatization of these tasks has been already studied for English. For other languages, only a few studies can be found (e.g. (Baly et al., 2018)), and to the best of our knowledge, no research has been conducted for West Slavic languages. In this paper, we present datasets for Czech, Polish, and Slovak. We also ran initial experiments which set a baseline for further research into this area.
Many Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks depend on using Named Entities (NEs) that are contained in texts and in external knowledge sources. While this is easy for humans, the present neural methods that rely on learned word embeddings may not perform well for these NLP tasks, especially in the presence of Out-Of-Vocabulary (OOV) or rare NEs. In this paper, we propose a solution for this problem, and present empirical evaluations on: a) a structured Question-Answering task, b) three related Goal-Oriented dialog tasks, and c) a Reading-Comprehension task, which show that the proposed method can be effective in dealing with both in-vocabulary and OOV NEs. We create extended versions of dialog bAbI tasks 1,2 and 4 and OOV versions of the CBT test set which are available at - https://github.com/IBM/ne-table-datasets/
Calculating Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) plays a significant role in many applications such as question answering, document summarisation, information retrieval and information extraction. All modern state of the art STS methods rely on word embeddings one way or another. The recently introduced contextualised word embeddings have proved more effective than standard word embeddings in many natural language processing tasks. This paper evaluates the impact of several contextualised word embeddings on unsupervised STS methods and compares it with the existing supervised/unsupervised STS methods for different datasets in different languages and different domains
Calculating the Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) is an important research area in natural language processing which plays a significant role in many applications such as question answering, document summarisation, information retrieval and information extraction. This paper evaluates Siamese recurrent architectures, a special type of neural networks, which are used here to measure STS. Several variants of the architecture are compared with existing methods
Traditional approaches to automatic term extraction do not rely on machine learning (ML) and select the top n ranked candidate terms or candidate terms above a certain predefined cut-off point, based on a limited number of linguistic and statistical clues. However, supervised ML approaches are gaining interest. Relatively little is known about the impact of these supervised methodologies; evaluations are often limited to precision, and sometimes recall and f1-scores, without information about the nature of the extracted candidate terms. Therefore, the current paper presents a detailed and elaborate analysis and comparison of a traditional, state-of-the-art system (TermoStat) and a new, supervised ML approach (HAMLET), using the results obtained for the same, manually annotated, Dutch corpus about dressage.
News articles often convey attitudes between the mentioned subjects, which is essential for understanding the described situation. In this paper, we describe a new approach to distant supervision for extracting sentiment attitudes between named entities mentioned in texts. Two factors (pair-based and frame-based) were used to automatically label an extensive news collection, dubbed as RuAttitudes. The latter became a basis for adaptation and training convolutional architectures, including piecewise max pooling and full use of information across different sentences. The results show that models, trained with RuAttitudes, outperform ones that were trained with only supervised learning approach and achieve 13.4{\%} increase in F1-score on RuSentRel collection.
Self-attentional models are a new paradigm for sequence modelling tasks which differ from common sequence modelling methods, such as recurrence-based and convolution-based sequence learning, in the way that their architecture is only based on the attention mechanism. Self-attentional models have been used in the creation of the state-of-the-art models in many NLP task such as neural machine translation, but their usage has not been explored for the task of training end-to-end task-oriented dialogue generation systems yet. In this study, we apply these models on the DSTC2 dataset for training task-oriented chatbots. Our finding shows that self-attentional models can be exploited to create end-to-end task-oriented chatbots which not only achieve higher evaluation scores compared to recurrence-based models, but also do so more efficiently.
Vectorial representations of meaning can be supported by empirical data from diverse sources and obtained with diverse embedding approaches. This paper aims at screening this experimental space and reports on an assessment of word embeddings supported (i) by data in raw texts vs. in lexical graphs, (ii) by lexical information encoded in association- vs. inference-based graphs, and obtained (iii) by edge reconstruction- vs. matrix factorisation vs. random walk-based graph embedding methods. The results observed with these experiments indicate that the best solutions with graph-based word embeddings are very competitive, consistently outperforming mainstream text-based ones.
Recurrent Neural Network Language Models composed of LSTM units, especially those augmented with an external memory, have achieved state-of-the-art results in Language Modeling. However, these models still struggle to process long sequences which are more likely to contain long-distance dependencies because of information fading. In this paper we demonstrate an effective mechanism for retrieving information in a memory augmented LSTM LM based on attending to information in memory in proportion to the number of timesteps the LSTM gating mechanism persisted the information.
In this paper we present a rule- and lexicon-based system for the recognition of Named Entities (NE) in Serbian newspaper texts that was used to prepare a gold standard annotated with personal names. It was further used to prepare training sets for four different levels of annotation, which were further used to train two Named Entity Recognition (NER) systems: Stanford and spaCy. All obtained models, together with a rule- and lexicon-based system were evaluated on two sample texts: a part of the gold standard and an independent newspaper text of approximately the same size. The results show that rule- and lexicon-based system outperforms trained models in all four scenarios (measured by F1), while Stanford models has the highest precision. All systems obtain best results in recognizing full names, while the recognition of first names only is rather poor. The produced models are incorporated into a Web platform NER{\&}Beyond that provides various NE-related functions.
We introduce a labelled corpus of stances about moral issues for the Brazilian Portuguese language, and present reference results for both the stance recognition and polarity classification tasks. The corpus is built from Twitter and further expanded with data elicited through crowd sourcing and labelled by their own authors. Put together, the corpus and reference results are expected to be taken as a baseline for further studies in the field of stance recognition and polarity classification from text.
The research presented here is based on the theoretical model of corpus lattices. We implemented this as an effective data structure, and developed an algorithm based on this structure to discover essential verbal expressions from corpus data. The idea behind the algorithm is the {``}jump and stay{''} principle, which tells us that our target expressions will be found at such places in the lattice where the value of a suitable function (defined on the vertex set of the corpus lattice) significantly increases (jumps) and then remains the same (stays). We evaluated our method on Hungarian data. Evaluation shows that about 75{\%} of the obtained expressions are correct, actual errors are rare. Thus, this paper is 1. a proof of concept concerning the corpus lattice model, opening the way to investigate this structure further through our implementation; and 2. a proof of concept of the {``}jump and stay{''} idea and the algorithm itself, opening the way to apply it further, e.g. for other languages.
In recent years an increasing number of analyses of offensive language has been published, however, dealing mainly with the automatic detection and classification of isolated instances. In this paper we aim to understand the impact of offensive messages in online conversations diachronically, and in particular the change in offensiveness of dialogue turns. In turn, we aim to measure the progression of offence level as well as its direction - For example, whether a conversation is escalating or declining in offence. We present our method of extracting linear dialogues from tree-structured conversations in social media data and make our code publicly available. Furthermore, we discuss methods to analyse this dataset through changes in discourse offensiveness. Our paper includes two main contributions; first, using a neural network to measure the level of offensiveness in conversations; and second, the analysis of conversations around offensive comments using decoupling functions.
Despite being a fairly recent phenomenon, emojis have quickly become ubiquitous. Besides their extensive use in social media, they are now also invoked in customer surveys and feedback forms. Hence, there is a need for techniques to understand their sentiment and emotion. In this work, we provide a method to quantify the emotional association of basic emotions such as anger, fear, joy, and sadness for a set of emojis. We collect and process a unique corpus of 20 million emoji-centric tweets, such that we can capture rich emoji semantics using a comparably small dataset. We evaluate the induced emotion profiles of emojis with regard to their ability to predict word affect intensities as well as sentiment scores.
We propose a morphologically informed model for named entity recognition, which is based on LSTM-CRF architecture and combines word embeddings, Bi-LSTM character embeddings, part-of-speech (POS) tags, and morphological information. While previous work has focused on learning from raw word input, using word and character embeddings only, we show that for morphologically rich languages, such as Bulgarian, access to POS information contributes more to the performance gains than the detailed morphological information. Thus, we show that named entity recognition needs only coarse-grained POS tags, but at the same time it can benefit from simultaneously using some POS information of different granularity. Our evaluation results over a standard dataset show sizeable improvements over the state-of-the-art for Bulgarian NER.
In this paper we discuss the named entity recognition task for Russian texts related to cybersecurity. First of all, we describe the problems that arise in course of labeling unstructured texts from information security domain. We introduce guidelines for human annotators, according to which a corpus has been marked up. Then, a CRF-based system and different neural architectures have been implemented and applied to the corpus. The named entity recognition systems have been evaluated and compared to determine the most efficient one.
We address the problem of cognate identification across vocabulary pairs of any set of languages. In particular, we focus on the case where the examined pair of languages are low-resource to the extent that no training data whatsoever in these languages, or even closely related ones, are available for the task. We investigate the extent to which training data from another, unrelated language family can be used instead. Our approach consists of learning a similarity metric from example cognates in Indo-European languages and applying it to low-resource Sami languages of the Uralic family. We apply two models following previous work: a Siamese convolutional neural network (S-CNN) and a support vector machine (SVM), and compare them with a Levenshtein-distance baseline. We test performance on three Sami languages and find that the S-CNN outperforms the other approaches, suggesting that it is better able to learn such general characteristics of cognateness that carry over across language families. We also experiment with fine-tuning the S-CNN model with data from within the language family in order to quantify how well this model can make use of a small amount of target-domain data to adapt.
Parallel corpora are crucial resources for NLP applications, most notably for machine translation. The direction of the (human) translation of parallel corpora has been shown to have significant implications for the quality of statistical machine translation systems that are trained with such corpora. We describe a method for determining the direction of the (manual) translation of parallel corpora at the sentence-pair level. Using several linguistically-motivated features, coupled with a neural network model, we obtain high accuracy on several language pairs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the accuracy is correlated with the (typological) distance between the two languages.
In this work, we investigate the possibility of using fully automatic text simplification system on the English source in machine translation (MT) for improving its translation into an under-resourced language. We use the state-of-the-art automatic text simplification (ATS) system for lexically and syntactically simplifying source sentences, which are then translated with two state-of-the-art English-to-Serbian MT systems, the phrase-based MT (PBMT) and the neural MT (NMT). We explore three different scenarios for using the ATS in MT: (1) using the raw output of the ATS; (2) automatically filtering out the sentences with low grammaticality and meaning preservation scores; and (3) performing a minimal manual correction of the ATS output. Our results show improvement in fluency of the translation regardless of the chosen scenario, and difference in success of the three scenarios depending on the MT approach used (PBMT or NMT) with regards to improving translation fluency and post-editing effort.
Abusive language detection has received much attention in the last years, and recent approaches perform the task in a number of different languages. We investigate which factors have an effect on multilingual settings, focusing on the compatibility of data and annotations. In the current paper, we focus on English and German. Our findings show large differences in performance between the two languages. We find that the best performance is achieved by different classification algorithms. Sampling to address class imbalance issues is detrimental for German and beneficial for English. The only similarity that we find is that neither data set shows clear topics when we compare the results of topic modeling to the gold standard. Based on our findings, we can conclude that a multilingual optimization of classifiers is not possible even in settings where comparable data sets are used.
Previous work on using BiLSTM models for PoS tagging has primarily focused on small tagsets. We evaluate BiLSTM models for tagging Icelandic, a morphologically rich language, using a relatively large tagset. Our baseline BiLSTM model achieves higher accuracy than any other previously published tagger, when not taking advantage of a morphological lexicon. When we extend the model by incorporating such data, we outperform the earlier state-of-the-art results by a significant margin. We also report on work in progress that attempts to address the problem of data sparsity inherent to morphologically detailed, fine-grained tagsets. We experiment with training a separate model on only the lexical category and using the coarse-grained output tag as an input into to the main model. This method further increases the accuracy and reduces the tagging errors by 21.3{\%} compared to previous state-of-the-art results. Finally, we train and test our tagger on a new gold standard for Icelandic.
This paper addresses the task of categorizing companies within industry classification schemes. The datasets consists of encyclopedic articles about companies and their economic activities. The target classification schema is build by mapping linked open data in a semi-supervised manner. Target classes are build bottom-up from DBpedia. We apply several state of the art text classification techniques, based both on deep-learning and classical vector-space models.
This paper presents a novel algorithm for Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) based on Quantum Probability Theory. The Quantum WSD algorithm requires concepts representations as vectors in the complex domain and thus we have developed a technique for computing complex word and sentence embeddings based on the Paragraph Vectors algorithm. Despite the proposed method is quite simple and that it does not require long training phases, when it is evaluated on a standardized benchmark for this task it exhibits state-of-the-art (SOTA) performances.
In this paper, we try to understand neural machine translation (NMT) via simplifying NMT architectures and training encoder-free NMT models. In an encoder-free model, the sums of word embeddings and positional embeddings represent the source. The decoder is a standard Transformer or recurrent neural network that directly attends to embeddings via attention mechanisms. Experimental results show (1) that the attention mechanism in encoder-free models acts as a strong feature extractor, (2) that the word embeddings in encoder-free models are competitive to those in conventional models, (3) that non-contextualized source representations lead to a big performance drop, and (4) that encoder-free models have different effects on alignment quality for German-English and Chinese-English.
Collaboratively constructed knowledge bases play an important role in information systems, but are essentially always incomplete. Thus, a large number of models has been developed for Knowledge Base Completion, the task of predicting new attributes of entities given partial descriptions of these entities. Virtually all of these models either concentrate on numeric attributes ({\textless}Italy,GDP,2T{\$}{\textgreater}) or they concentrate on categorical attributes ({\textless}Tim Cook,chairman,Apple{\textgreater}). In this paper, we propose a simple feed-forward neural architecture to jointly predict numeric and categorical attributes based on embeddings learned from textual occurrences of the entities in question. Following insights from multi-task learning, our hypothesis is that due to the correlations among attributes of different kinds, joint prediction improves over separate prediction. Our experiments on seven FreeBase domains show that this hypothesis is true of the two attribute types: we find substantial improvements for numeric attributes in the joint model, while performance remains largely unchanged for categorical attributes. Our analysis indicates that this is the case because categorical attributes, many of which describe membership in various classes, provide useful {`}background knowledge{'} for numeric prediction, while this is true to a lesser degree in the inverse direction.
Arabizi is an informal written form of dialectal Arabic transcribed in Latin alphanumeric characters. It has a proven popularity on chat platforms and social media, yet it suffers from a severe lack of natural language processing (NLP) resources. As such, texts written in Arabizi are often disregarded in sentiment analysis tasks for Arabic. In this paper we describe the creation of a sentiment lexicon for Arabizi that was enriched with word embeddings. The result is a new Arabizi lexicon consisting of 11.3K positive and 13.3K negative words. We evaluated this lexicon by classifying the sentiment of Arabizi tweets achieving an F1-score of 0.72. We provide a detailed error analysis to present the challenges that impact the sentiment analysis of Arabizi.
Semantic change detection (i.e., identifying words whose meaning has changed over time) started emerging as a growing area of research over the past decade, with important downstream applications in natural language processing, historical linguistics and computational social science. However, several obstacles make progress in the domain slow and difficult. These pertain primarily to the lack of well-established gold standard datasets, resources to study the problem at a fine-grained temporal resolution, and quantitative evaluation approaches. In this work, we aim to mitigate these issues by (a) releasing a new labelled dataset of more than 47K word vectors trained on the UK Web Archive over a short time-frame (2000-2013); (b) proposing a variant of Procrustes alignment to detect words that have undergone semantic shift; and (c) introducing a rank-based approach for evaluation purposes. Through extensive numerical experiments and validation, we illustrate the effectiveness of our approach against competitive baselines. Finally, we also make our resources publicly available to further enable research in the domain.
Cross-lingual word embedding models learn a shared vector space for two or more languages so that words with similar meaning are represented by similar vectors regardless of their language. Although the existing models achieve high performance on pairs of morphologically simple languages, they perform very poorly on morphologically rich languages such as Turkish and Finnish. In this paper, we propose a morpheme-based model in order to increase the performance of cross-lingual word embeddings on morphologically rich languages. Our model includes a simple extension which enables us to exploit morphemes for cross-lingual mapping. We applied our model for the Turkish-Finnish language pair on the bilingual word translation task. Results show that our model outperforms the baseline models by 2{\%} in the nearest neighbour ranking.
We propose a multi-task deep-learning approach for estimating the check-worthiness of claims in political debates. Given a political debate, such as the 2016 US Presidential and Vice-Presidential ones, the task is to predict which statements in the debate should be prioritized for fact-checking. While different fact-checking organizations would naturally make different choices when analyzing the same debate, we show that it pays to learn from multiple sources simultaneously (PolitiFact, FactCheck, ABC, CNN, NPR, NYT, Chicago Tribune, The Guardian, and Washington Post) in a multi-task learning setup, even when a particular source is chosen as a target to imitate. Our evaluation shows state-of-the-art results on a standard dataset for the task of check-worthiness prediction.
This paper presents an approach for prediction of results for sport events. Usually the sport forecasting approaches are based on structured data. We test the hypothesis that the sports results can be predicted by using natural language processing and machine learning techniques applied over interviews with the players shortly before the sport events. The proposed method uses deep learning contextual models, applied over unstructured textual documents. Several experiments were performed for interviews with players in individual sports like boxing, martial arts, and tennis. The results from the conducted experiment confirmed our initial assumption that an interview from a sportsman before a match contains information that can be used for prediction the outcome from it. Furthermore, the results provide strong evidence in support of our research hypothesis, that is, we can predict the outcome from a sport match analyzing an interview, given before it.
We describe a novel system for automatic extraction of typological linguistic information from descriptive grammars of natural languages, applying the theory of frame semantics in the form of frame-semantic parsing. The current proof-of-concept system covers a few selected linguistic features, but the methodology is general and can be extended not only to other typological features but also to descriptive grammars written in languages other than English. Such a system is expected to be a useful assistance for automatic curation of typological databases which otherwise are built manually, a very labor and time consuming as well as cognitively taxing enterprise.
Natural language inference (NLI) is a key part of natural language understanding. The NLI task is defined as a decision problem whether a given sentence {--} hypothesis {--} can be inferred from a given text. Typically, we deal with a text consisting of just a single premise/single sentence, which is called a single premise entailment (SPE) task. Recently, a derived task of NLI from multiple premises (MPE) was introduced together with the first annotated corpus and corresponding several strong baselines. Nevertheless, the further development in MPE field requires accessibility of huge amounts of annotated data. In this paper we introduce a novel method for rapid deriving of MPE corpora from an existing NLI (SPE) annotated data that does not require any additional annotation work. This proposed approach is based on using an open information extraction system. We demonstrate the application of the method on a well known SNLI corpus. Over the obtained corpus, we provide the first evaluations as well as we state a strong baseline.
This paper addresses the problem of readability of automatically generated summaries in the context of second language learning. For this we experimented with a new corpus of level-annotated simplified English texts. The texts were summarized using a total of 7 extractive and abstractive summarization systems with compression rates of 20{\%}, 40{\%}, 60{\%} and 80{\%}. We analyzed the generated summaries in terms of lexical, syntactic and length-based features of readability, and concluded that summary complexity depends on the compression rate, summarization technique and the nature of the summarized corpus. Our experiments demonstrate the importance of choosing appropriate summarization techniques that align with user{'}s needs and language proficiency.
In this paper we describe how an abstractive text summarization method improved the informativeness of automatic summaries by integrating syntactic text simplification, subject-verb-object concept frequency scoring and a set of rules that transform text into its semantic representation. We analyzed the impact of each component of our approach on the quality of generated summaries and tested it on DUC 2002 dataset. Our experiments showed that our approach outperformed other state-of-the-art abstractive methods while maintaining acceptable linguistic quality and redundancy rate.
Given many recent advanced embedding models, selecting pre-trained word representation (i.e., word embedding) models best fit for a specific downstream NLP task is non-trivial. In this paper, we propose a systematic approach to extracting, evaluating, and visualizing multiple sets of pre-trained word embed- dings to determine which embeddings should be used in a downstream task. First, for extraction, we provide a method to extract a subset of the embeddings to be used in the downstream NLP tasks. Second, for evaluation, we analyse the quality of pre-trained embeddings using an input word analogy list. Finally, we visualize the embedding space to explore the embedded words interactively. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach on our pre-trained word embedding models in Vietnamese to select which models are suitable for a named entity recogni- tion (NER) task. Specifically, we create a large Vietnamese word analogy list to evaluate and select the pre-trained embedding models for the task. We then utilize the selected embed- dings for the NER task and achieve the new state-of-the-art results on the task benchmark dataset. We also apply the approach to another downstream task of privacy-guaranteed embedding selection, and show that it helps users quickly select the most suitable embeddings. In addition, we create an open-source system using the proposed systematic approach to facilitate similar studies on other NLP tasks. The source code and data are available at https: //github.com/vietnlp/etnlp.
In this paper we present a morpho-syntactic tagger dedicated to Computer-mediated Communication texts in Polish. Its construction is based on an expanded RNN-based neural network adapted to the work on noisy texts. Among several techniques, the tagger utilises fastText embedding vectors, sequential character embedding vectors, and Brown clustering for the coarse-grained representation of sentence structures. In addition a set of manually written rules was proposed for post-processing. The system was trained to disambiguate descriptions of words in relation to Parts of Speech tags together with the full morphological information in terms of values for the different grammatical categories. We present also evaluation of several model variants on the gold standard annotated CMC data, comparison to the state-of-the-art taggers for Polish and error analysis. The proposed tagger shows significantly better results in this domain and demonstrates the viability of adaptation.
The paper presents an evaluation of word embedding models in clustering of texts in the Polish language. Authors verified six different embedding models, starting from widely used word2vec, across fastText with character n-grams embedding, to deep learning-based ELMo and BERT. Moreover, four standardisation methods, three distance measures and four clustering methods were evaluated. The analysis was performed on two corpora of texts in Polish classified into subjects. The Adjusted Mutual Information (AMI) metric was used to verify the quality of clustering results. The performed experiments show that Skipgram models with n-grams character embedding, built on KGR10 corpus and provided by Clarin-PL, outperforms other publicly available models for Polish. Moreover, presented results suggest that Yeo{--}Johnson transformation for document vectors standardisation and Agglomerative Clustering with a cosine distance should be used for grouping of text documents.
The current state of the art for First Story Detection (FSD) are nearest neighbour-based models with traditional term vector representations; however, one challenge faced by FSD models is that the document representation is usually defined by the vocabulary and term frequency from a background corpus. Consequently, the ideal background corpus should arguably be both large-scale to ensure adequate term coverage, and similar to the target domain in terms of the language distribution. However, given these two factors cannot always be mutually satisfied, in this paper we examine whether the distributional similarity of common terms is more important than the scale of common terms for FSD. As a basis for our analysis we propose a set of metrics to quantitatively measure the scale of common terms and the distributional similarity between corpora. Using these metrics we rank different background corpora relative to a target corpus. We also apply models based on different background corpora to the FSD task. Our results show that term distributional similarity is more predictive of good FSD performance than the scale of common terms; and, thus we demonstrate that a smaller recent domain-related corpus will be more suitable than a very large-scale general corpus for FSD.
The goal of this paper is to use all available Polish language data sets to seek the best possible performance in supervised sentiment analysis of short texts. We use text collections with labelled sentiment such as tweets, movie reviews and a sentiment treebank, in three comparison modes. In the first, we examine the performance of models trained and tested on the same text collection using standard cross-validation (in-domain). In the second we train models on all available data except the given test collection, which we use for testing (one vs rest cross-domain). In the third, we train a model on one data set and apply it to another one (one vs one cross-domain). We compare wide range of methods including machine learning on bag-of-words representation, bidirectional recurrent neural networks as well as the most recent pre-trained architectures ELMO and BERT. We formulate conclusions as to cross-domain and in-domain performance of each method. Unsurprisingly, BERT turned out to be a strong performer, especially in the cross-domain setting. What is surprising however, is solid performance of the relatively simple multinomial Naive Bayes classifier, which performed equally well as BERT on several data sets.
Gold standard corpora and competitive evaluations play a key role in benchmarking named entity linking (NEL) performance and driving the development of more sophisticated NEL systems. The quality of the used corpora and the used evaluation metrics are crucial in this process. We, therefore, assess the quality of three popular evaluation corpora, identifying four major issues which affect these gold standards: (i) the use of different annotation styles, (ii) incorrect and missing annotations, (iii) Knowledge Base evolution, (iv) and differences in annotating co-occurrences. This paper addresses these issues by formalizing NEL annotations and corpus versioning which allows standardizing corpus creation, supports corpus evolution, and paves the way for the use of lenses to automatically transform between different corpus configurations. In addition, the use of clearly defined scoring rules and evaluation metrics ensures a better comparability of evaluation results.
We propose a method for non-projective dependency parsing by incrementally predicting a set of edges. Since the edges do not have a pre-specified order, we propose a set-based learning method. Our method blends graph, transition, and easy-first parsing, including a prior state of the parser as a special case. The proposed transition-based method successfully parses near the state of the art on both projective and non-projective languages, without assuming a certain parsing order.
The processing of medical information is not a trivial task for medical non-experts. The paper presents an artificial assistant designed to facilitate a reliable access to medical online contents. Interactions are modelled as doctor-patient Question Answering sessions within a pre-operative patient education scenario where the system addresses patient{'}s information needs explaining medical events and procedures. This implies an accurate medical information extraction from and reasoning with available medical knowledge and large amounts of unstructured multilingual online data. Bridging the gap between medical knowledge and data, we explore a language-agnostic approach to medical concepts mining from the standard terminologies, and the data-driven collection of the corresponding seed terms in a distant supervision setting for German. Experimenting with different terminologies, features and term matching strategies, we achieved a promising F-score of 0.91 on the medical term extraction task. The concepts and terms are used to search and retrieve definitions from the verified online free resources. The proof-of-concept definition retrieval system is designed and evaluated showing promising results, acceptable by humans in 92{\%} of cases.
NLP approaches to automatic text adaptation often rely on user-need guidelines which are generic and do not account for the differences between various types of target groups. One such group are adults with high-functioning autism, who are usually able to read long sentences and comprehend difficult words but whose comprehension may be impeded by other linguistic constructions. This is especially challenging for real-world user-generated texts such as product reviews, which cannot be controlled editorially and are thus a particularly good applcation for automatic text adaptation systems. In this paper we present a mixed-methods survey conducted with 24 adult web-users diagnosed with autism and an age-matched control group of 33 neurotypical participants. The aim of the survey was to identify whether the group with autism experienced any barriers when reading online reviews, what these potential barriers were, and what NLP methods would be best suited to improve the accessibility of online reviews for people with autism. The group with autism consistently reported significantly greater difficulties with understanding online product reviews compared to the control group and identified issues related to text length, poor topic organisation, and the use of irony and sarcasm.
In this paper, we present a two-level morphological analyzer for Turkish. The morphological analyzer consists of five main components: finite state transducer, rule engine for suffixation, lexicon, trie data structure, and LRU cache. We use Java language to implement finite state machine logic and rule engine, Xml language to describe the finite state transducer rules of the Turkish language, which makes the morphological analyzer both easily extendible and easily applicable to other languages. Empowered with the comprehensiveness of a lexicon of 54,000 bare-forms including 19,000 proper nouns, our morphological analyzer presents one of the most reliable analyzers produced so far. The analyzer is compared with Turkish morphological analyzers in the literature. By using LRU cache and a trie data structure, the system can analyze 100,000 words per second, which enables users to analyze huge corpora in a few hours.
Self-attention networks (SAN) have shown promising performance in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) scenarios, especially in machine translation. One of the main points of SANs is the strength of capturing long-range and multi-scale dependencies from the data. In this paper, we present a novel intent detection system which is based on a self-attention network and a Bi-LSTM. Our approach shows improvement by using a transformer model and deep averaging network-based universal sentence encoder compared to previous solutions. We evaluate the system on Snips, Smart Speaker, Smart Lights, and ATIS datasets by different evaluation metrics. The performance of the proposed model is compared with LSTM with the same datasets.
Short-text classification is a challenging task, due to the sparsity and high dimensionality of the feature space. In this study, we aim to analyze and classify Turkish tweets based on their topics. Social media jargon and the agglutinative structure of the Turkish language makes this classification task even harder. As far as we know, this is the first study that uses a Transformer Encoder for short text classification in Turkish. The model is trained in a weakly supervised manner, where the training data set has been labeled automatically. Our results on the test set, which has been manually labeled, show that performing morphological analysis improves the classification performance of the traditional machine learning algorithms Random Forest, Naive Bayes, and Support Vector Machines. Still, the proposed approach achieves an F-score of 89.3 {\%} outperforming those algorithms by at least 5 points.
Dynamic topic models (DTMs) capture the evolution of topics and trends in time series data.Current DTMs are applicable only to monolingual datasets. In this paper we present the multilingual dynamic topic model (ML-DTM), a novel topic model that combines DTM with an existing multilingual topic modeling method to capture cross-lingual topics that evolve across time. We present results of this model on a parallel German-English corpus of news articles and a comparable corpus of Finnish and Swedish news articles. We demonstrate the capability of ML-DTM to track significant events related to a topic and show that it finds distinct topics and performs as well as existing multilingual topic models in aligning cross-lingual topics.
We present an open-source, wide-coverage context-free grammar (CFG) for Icelandic, and an accompanying parsing system. The grammar has over 5,600 nonterminals, 4,600 terminals and 19,000 productions in fully expanded form, with feature agreement constraints for case, gender, number and person. The parsing system consists of an enhanced Earley-based parser and a mechanism to select best-scoring parse trees from shared packed parse forests. Our parsing system is able to parse about 90{\%} of all sentences in articles published on the main Icelandic news websites. Preliminary evaluation with evalb shows an F-measure of 70.72{\%} on parsed sentences. Our system demonstrates that parsing a morphologically rich language using a wide-coverage CFG can be practical.
Until now, most of the research in grammar error correction focused on English, and the problem has hardly been explored for other languages. We address the task of correcting writing mistakes in morphologically rich languages, with a focus on Russian. We present a corrected and error-tagged corpus of Russian learner writing and develop models that make use of existing state-of-the-art methods that have been well studied for English. Although impressive results have recently been achieved for grammar error correction of non-native English writing, these results are limited to domains where plentiful training data are available. Because annotation is extremely costly, these approaches are not suitable for the majority of domains and languages. We thus focus on methods that use {``}minimal supervision{''}; that is, those that do not rely on large amounts of annotated training data, and show how existing minimal-supervision approaches extend to a highly inflectional language such as Russian. The results demonstrate that these methods are particularly useful for correcting mistakes in grammatical phenomena that involve rich morphology.
It is intuitive that semantic representations can be useful for machine translation, mainly because they can help in enforcing meaning preservation and handling data sparsity (many sentences correspond to one meaning) of machine translation models. On the other hand, little work has been done on leveraging semantics for neural machine translation (NMT). In this work, we study the usefulness of AMR (abstract meaning representation) on NMT. Experiments on a standard English-to-German dataset show that incorporating AMR as additional knowledge can significantly improve a strong attention-based sequence-to-sequence neural translation model.
In standard NLP pipelines, morphological analysis and disambiguation (MA{\&}D) precedes syntactic and semantic downstream tasks. However, for languages with complex and ambiguous word-internal structure, known as morphologically rich languages (MRLs), it has been hypothesized that syntactic context may be crucial for accurate MA{\&}D, and vice versa. In this work we empirically confirm this hypothesis for Modern Hebrew, an MRL with complex morphology and severe word-level ambiguity, in a novel transition-based framework. Specifically, we propose a joint morphosyntactic transition-based framework which formally unifies two distinct transition systems, morphological and syntactic, into a single transition-based system with joint training and joint inference. We empirically show that MA{\&}D results obtained in the joint settings outperform MA{\&}D results obtained by the respective standalone components, and that end-to-end parsing results obtained by our joint system present a new state of the art for Hebrew dependency parsing.
The field of natural language processing has seen impressive progress in recent years, with neural network models replacing many of the traditional systems. A plethora of new models have been proposed, many of which are thought to be opaque compared to their feature-rich counterparts. This has led researchers to analyze, interpret, and evaluate neural networks in novel and more fine-grained ways. In this survey paper, we review analysis methods in neural language processing, categorize them according to prominent research trends, highlight existing limitations, and point to potential directions for future work.
Lexicalized parsing models are based on the assumptions that (i) constituents are organized around a lexical head and (ii) bilexical statistics are crucial to solve ambiguities. In this paper, we introduce an unlexicalized transition-based parser for discontinuous constituency structures, based on a structure-label transition system and a bi-LSTM scoring system. We compare it with lexicalized parsing models in order to address the question of lexicalization in the context of discontinuous constituency parsing. Our experiments show that unlexicalized models systematically achieve higher results than lexicalized models, and provide additional empirical evidence that lexicalization is not necessary to achieve strong parsing results. Our best unlexicalized model sets a new state of the art on English and German discontinuous constituency treebanks. We further provide a per-phenomenon analysis of its errors on discontinuous constituents.
Existing approaches to neural machine translation (NMT) generate the target language sequence token-by-token from left to right. However, this kind of unidirectional decoding framework cannot make full use of the target-side future contexts which can be produced in a right-to-left decoding direction, and thus suffers from the issue of unbalanced outputs. In this paper, we introduce a synchronous bidirectional{--}neural machine translation (SB-NMT) that predicts its outputs using left-to-right and right-to-left decoding simultaneously and interactively, in order to leverage both of the history and future information at the same time. Specifically, we first propose a new algorithm that enables synchronous bidirectional decoding in a single model. Then, we present an interactive decoding model in which left-to-right (right-to-left) generation does not only depend on its previously generated outputs, but also relies on future contexts predicted by right-to-left (left-to-right) decoding. We extensively evaluate the proposed SB-NMT model on large-scale NIST Chinese{--}English, WMT14 English{--}German, and WMT18 Russian{--}English translation tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that our model achieves significant improvements over the strong Transformer model by 3.92, 1.49, and 1.04 BLEU points, respectively, and obtains the state-of-the-art performance on Chinese{--}English and English{--}German translation tasks.
We propose a novel geometric approach for learning bilingual mappings given monolingual embeddings and a bilingual dictionary. Our approach decouples the source-to-target language transformation into (a) language-specific rotations on the original embeddings to align them in a common, latent space, and (b) a language-independent similarity metric in this common space to better model the similarity between the embeddings. Overall, we pose the bilingual mapping problem as a classification problem on smooth Riemannian manifolds. Empirically, our approach outperforms previous approaches on the bilingual lexicon induction and cross-lingual word similarity tasks. We next generalize our framework to represent multiple languages in a common latent space. Language-specific rotations for all the languages and a common similarity metric in the latent space are learned jointly from bilingual dictionaries for multiple language pairs. We illustrate the effectiveness of joint learning for multiple languages in an indirect word translation setting.
Stacking long short-term memory (LSTM) cells or gated recurrent units (GRUs) as part of a recurrent neural network (RNN) has become a standard approach to solving a number of tasks ranging from language modeling to text summarization. Although LSTMs and GRUs were designed to model long-range dependencies more accurately than conventional RNNs, they nevertheless have problems copying or recalling information from the long distant past. Here, we derive a phase-coded representation of the memory state, Rotational Unit of Memory (RUM), that unifies the concepts of unitary learning and associative memory. We show experimentally that RNNs based on RUMs can solve basic sequential tasks such as memory copying and memory recall much better than LSTMs/GRUs. We further demonstrate that by replacing LSTM/GRU with RUM units we can apply neural networks to real-world problems such as language modeling and text summarization, yielding results comparable to the state of the art.
Neural text classification models typically treat output labels as categorical variables that lack description and semantics. This forces their parametrization to be dependent on the label set size, and, hence, they are unable to scale to large label sets and generalize to unseen ones. Existing joint input-label text models overcome these issues by exploiting label descriptions, but they are unable to capture complex label relationships, have rigid parametrization, and their gains on unseen labels happen often at the expense of weak performance on the labels seen during training. In this paper, we propose a new input-label model that generalizes over previous such models, addresses their limitations, and does not compromise performance on seen labels. The model consists of a joint nonlinear input-label embedding with controllable capacity and a joint-space-dependent classification unit that is trained with cross-entropy loss to optimize classification performance. We evaluate models on full-resource and low- or zero-resource text classification of multilingual news and biomedical text with a large label set. Our model outperforms monolingual and multilingual models that do not leverage label semantics and previous joint input-label space models in both scenarios.
Autosegmental representations (ARs; Goldsmith, 1976) are claimed to enable local analyses of otherwise non-local phenomena Odden (1994). Focusing on the domain of tone, we investigate this ability of ARs using a computationally well-defined notion of locality extended from Chandlee (2014). The result is a more nuanced understanding of the way in which ARs interact with phonological locality.
When searching for information, a human reader first glances over a document, spots relevant sections, and then focuses on a few sentences for resolving her intention. However, the high variance of document structure complicates the identification of the salient topic of a given section at a glance. To tackle this challenge, we present SECTOR, a model to support machine reading systems by segmenting documents into coherent sections and assigning topic labels to each section. Our deep neural network architecture learns a latent topic embedding over the course of a document. This can be leveraged to classify local topics from plain text and segment a document at topic shifts. In addition, we contribute WikiSection, a publicly available data set with 242k labeled sections in English and German from two distinct domains: diseases and cities. From our extensive evaluation of 20 architectures, we report a highest score of 71.6{\%} F1 for the segmentation and classification of 30 topics from the English city domain, scored by our SECTOR long short-term memory model with Bloom filter embeddings and bidirectional segmentation. This is a significant improvement of 29.5 points F1 over state-of-the-art CNN classifiers with baseline segmentation.
Recent years have seen increasingly complex question-answering on knowledge bases (KBQA) involving logical, quantitative, and comparative reasoning over KB subgraphs. Neural Program Induction (NPI) is a pragmatic approach toward modularizing the reasoning process by translating a complex natural language query into a multi-step executable program. While NPI has been commonly trained with the {`}{`}gold{'}{'} program or its sketch, for realistic KBQA applications such gold programs are expensive to obtain. There, practically only natural language queries and the corresponding answers can be provided for training. The resulting combinatorial explosion in program space, along with extremely sparse rewards, makes NPI for KBQA ambitious and challenging. We present Complex Imperative Program Induction from Terminal Rewards (CIPITR), an advanced neural programmer that mitigates reward sparsity with auxiliary rewards, and restricts the program space to semantically correct programs using high-level constraints, KB schema, and inferred answer type. CIPITR solves complex KBQA considerably more accurately than key-value memory networks and neural symbolic machines (NSM). For moderately complex queries requiring 2- to 5-step programs, CIPITR scores at least 3{\mbox{$\times$}} higher F1 than the competing systems. On one of the hardest class of programs (comparative reasoning) with 5{--}10 steps, CIPITR outperforms NSM by a factor of 89 and memory networks by 9 times.
The performance of text classification has improved tremendously using intelligently engineered neural-based models, especially those injecting categorical metadata as additional information, e.g., using user/product information for sentiment classification. This information has been used to modify parts of the model (e.g., word embeddings, attention mechanisms) such that results can be customized according to the metadata. We observe that current representation methods for categorical metadata, which are devised for human consumption, are not as effective as claimed in popular classification methods, outperformed even by simple concatenation of categorical features in the final layer of the sentence encoder. We conjecture that categorical features are harder to represent for machine use, as available context only indirectly describes the category, and even such context is often scarce (for tail category). To this end, we propose using basis vectors to effectively incorporate categorical metadata on various parts of a neural-based model. This additionally decreases the number of parameters dramatically, especially when the number of categorical features is large. Extensive experiments on various data sets with different properties are performed and show that through our method, we can represent categorical metadata more effectively to customize parts of the model, including unexplored ones, and increase the performance of the model greatly.
We present DREAM, the first dialogue-based multiple-choice reading comprehension data set. Collected from English as a Foreign Language examinations designed by human experts to evaluate the comprehension level of Chinese learners of English, our data set contains 10,197 multiple-choice questions for 6,444 dialogues. In contrast to existing reading comprehension data sets, DREAM is the first to focus on in-depth multi-turn multi-party dialogue understanding. DREAM is likely to present significant challenges for existing reading comprehension systems: 84{\%} of answers are non-extractive, 85{\%} of questions require reasoning beyond a single sentence, and 34{\%} of questions also involve commonsense knowledge. We apply several popular neural reading comprehension models that primarily exploit surface information within the text and find them to, at best, just barely outperform a rule-based approach. We next investigate the effects of incorporating dialogue structure and different kinds of general world knowledge into both rule-based and (neural and non-neural) machine learning-based reading comprehension models. Experimental results on the DREAM data set show the effectiveness of dialogue structure and general world knowledge. DREAM is available at https://dataset.org/dream/.
In many machine learning scenarios, supervision by gold labels is not available and conse quently neural models cannot be trained directly by maximum likelihood estimation. In a weak supervision scenario, metric-augmented objectives can be employed to assign feedback to model outputs, which can be used to extract a supervision signal for training. We present several objectives for two separate weakly supervised tasks, machine translation and semantic parsing. We show that objectives should actively discourage negative outputs in addition to promoting a surrogate gold structure. This notion of bipolarity is naturally present in ramp loss objectives, which we adapt to neural models. We show that bipolar ramp loss objectives outperform other non-bipolar ramp loss objectives and minimum risk training on both weakly supervised tasks, as well as on a supervised machine translation task. Additionally, we introduce a novel token-level ramp loss objective, which is able to outperform even the best sequence-level ramp loss on both weakly supervised tasks.
Humans gather information through conversations involving a series of interconnected questions and answers. For machines to assist in information gathering, it is therefore essential to enable them to answer conversational questions. We introduce CoQA, a novel dataset for building Conversational Question Answering systems. Our dataset contains 127k questions with answers, obtained from 8k conversations about text passages from seven diverse domains. The questions are conversational, and the answers are free-form text with their corresponding evidence highlighted in the passage. We analyze CoQA in depth and show that conversational questions have challenging phenomena not present in existing reading comprehension datasets (e.g., coreference and pragmatic reasoning). We evaluate strong dialogue and reading comprehension models on CoQA. The best system obtains an F1 score of 65.4{\%}, which is 23.4 points behind human performance (88.8{\%}), indicating that there is ample room for improvement. We present CoQA as a challenge to the community at https://stanfordnlp.github.io/coqa.
This paper presents an unsupervised framework for jointly modeling topic content and discourse behavior in microblog conversations. Concretely, we propose a neural model to discover word clusters indicating what a conversation concerns (i.e., topics) and those reflecting how participants voice their opinions (i.e., discourse).1 Extensive experiments show that our model can yield both coherent topics and meaningful discourse behavior. Further study shows that our topic and discourse representations can benefit the classification of microblog messages, especially when they are jointly trained with the classifier.Our data sets and code are available at: http://github.com/zengjichuan/Topic{\_}Disc.
We present a new cubic-time algorithm to calculate the optimal next step in shift-reduce dependency parsing, relative to ground truth, commonly referred to as dynamic oracle. Unlike existing algorithms, it is applicable if the training corpus contains non-projective structures. We then show that for a projective training corpus, the time complexity can be improved from cubic to linear.
We focus on graph-to-sequence learning, which can be framed as transducing graph structures to sequences for text generation. To capture structural information associated with graphs, we investigate the problem of encoding graphs using graph convolutional networks (GCNs). Unlike various existing approaches where shallow architectures were used for capturing local structural information only, we introduce a dense connection strategy, proposing a novel Densely Connected Graph Convolutional Network (DCGCN). Such a deep architecture is able to integrate both local and non-local features to learn a better structural representation of a graph. Our model outperforms the state-of-the-art neural models significantly on AMR-to-text generation and syntax-based neural machine translation.
Speech translation has traditionally been approached through cascaded models consisting of a speech recognizer trained on a corpus of transcribed speech, and a machine translation system trained on parallel texts. Several recent works have shown the feasibility of collapsing the cascade into a single, direct model that can be trained in an end-to-end fashion on a corpus of translated speech. However, experiments are inconclusive on whether the cascade or the direct model is stronger, and have only been conducted under the unrealistic assumption that both are trained on equal amounts of data, ignoring other available speech recognition and machine translation corpora. In this paper, we demonstrate that direct speech translation models require more data to perform well than cascaded models, and although they allow including auxiliary data through multi-task training, they are poor at exploiting such data, putting them at a severe disadvantage. As a remedy, we propose the use of end- to-end trainable models with two attention mechanisms, the first establishing source speech to source text alignments, the second modeling source to target text alignment. We show that such models naturally decompose into multi-task{--}trainable recognition and translation tasks and propose an attention-passing technique that alleviates error propagation issues in a previous formulation of a model with two attention stages. Our proposed model outperforms all examined baselines and is able to exploit auxiliary training data much more effectively than direct attentional models.
We quantify the linguistic complexity of different languages{'} morphological systems. We verify that there is a statistically significant empirical trade-off between paradigm size and irregularity: A language{'}s inflectional paradigms may be either large in size or highly irregular, but never both. We define a new measure of paradigm irregularity based on the conditional entropy of the surface realization of a paradigm{---} how hard it is to jointly predict all the word forms in a paradigm from the lemma. We estimate irregularity by training a predictive model. Our measurements are taken on large morphological paradigms from 36 typologically diverse languages.
In this paper we focus on learning dependency aware representations for semantic role labeling without recourse to an external parser. The backbone of our model is an LSTM-based semantic role labeler jointly trained with two auxiliary tasks: predicting the dependency label of a word and whether there exists an arc linking it to the predicate. The auxiliary tasks provide syntactic information that is specific to semantic role labeling and are learned from training data (dependency annotations) without relying on existing dependency parsers, which can be noisy (e.g., on out-of-domain data or infrequent constructions). Experimental results on the CoNLL-2009 benchmark dataset show that our model outperforms the state of the art in English, and consistently improves performance in other languages, including Chinese, German, and Spanish.
Treebanks traditionally treat punctuation marks as ordinary words, but linguists have suggested that a tree{'}s {``}true{''} punctuation marks are not observed (Nunberg, 1990). These latent {``}underlying{''} marks serve to delimit or separate constituents in the syntax tree. When the tree{'}s yield is rendered as a written sentence, a string rewriting mechanism transduces the underlying marks into {``}surface{''} marks, which are part of the observed (surface) string but should not be regarded as part of the tree. We formalize this idea in a generative model of punctuation that admits efficient dynamic programming. We train it without observing the underlying marks, by locally maximizing the incomplete data likelihood (similarly to the EM algorithm). When we use the trained model to reconstruct the tree{'}s underlying punctuation, the results appear plausible across 5 languages, and in particular are consistent with Nunberg{'}s analysis of English. We show that our generative model can be used to beat baselines on punctuation restoration. Also, our reconstruction of a sentence{'}s underlying punctuation lets us appropriately render the surface punctuation (via our trained underlying-to-surface mechanism) when we syntactically transform the sentence.
Neural end-to-end goal-oriented dialog systems showed promise to reduce the workload of human agents for customer service, as well as reduce wait time for users. However, their inability to handle new user behavior at deployment has limited their usage in real world. In this work, we propose an end-to-end trainable method for neural goal-oriented dialog systems that handles new user behaviors at deployment by transferring the dialog to a human agent intelligently. The proposed method has three goals: 1) maximize user{'}s task success by transferring to human agents, 2) minimize the load on the human agents by transferring to them only when it is essential, and 3) learn online from the human agent{'}s responses to reduce human agents{'} load further. We evaluate our proposed method on a modified-bAbI dialog task, which simulates the scenario of new user behaviors occurring at test time. Experimental results show that our proposed method is effective in achieving the desired goals.
Adversarial evaluation stress-tests a model{'}s understanding of natural language. Because past approaches expose superficial patterns, the resulting adversarial examples are limited in complexity and diversity. We propose human- in-the-loop adversarial generation, where human authors are guided to break models. We aid the authors with interpretations of model predictions through an interactive user interface. We apply this generation framework to a question answering task called Quizbowl, where trivia enthusiasts craft adversarial questions. The resulting questions are validated via live human{--}computer matches: Although the questions appear ordinary to humans, they systematically stump neural and information retrieval models. The adversarial questions cover diverse phenomena from multi-hop reasoning to entity type distractors, exposing open challenges in robust question answering.
Building meaningful phrase representations is challenging because phrase meanings are not simply the sum of their constituent meanings. Lexical composition can shift the meanings of the constituent words and introduce implicit information. We tested a broad range of textual representations for their capacity to address these issues. We found that, as expected, contextualized word representations perform better than static word embeddings, more so on detecting meaning shift than in recovering implicit information, in which their performance is still far from that of humans. Our evaluation suite, consisting of six tasks related to lexical composition effects, can serve future research aiming to improve representations.
We present a multiattentive recurrent neural network architecture for automatic multilingual readability assessment. This architecture considers raw words as its main input, but internally captures text structure and informs its word attention process using other syntax- and morphology-related datapoints, known to be of great importance to readability. This is achieved by a multiattentive strategy that allows the neural network to focus on specific parts of a text for predicting its reading level. We conducted an exhaustive evaluation using data sets targeting multiple languages and prediction task types, to compare the proposed model with traditional, state-of-the-art, and other neural network strategies.
Composition models of distributional semantics are used to construct phrase representations from the representations of their words. Composition models are typically situated on two ends of a spectrum. They either have a small number of parameters but compose all phrases in the same way, or they perform word-specific compositions at the cost of a far larger number of parameters. In this paper we propose transformation weighting (TransWeight), a composition model that consistently outperforms existing models on nominal compounds, adjective-noun phrases, and adverb-adjective phrases in English, German, and Dutch. TransWeight drastically reduces the number of parameters needed compared with the best model in the literature by composing similar words in the same way.
We present the Natural Questions corpus, a question answering data set. Questions consist of real anonymized, aggregated queries issued to the Google search engine. An annotator is presented with a question along with a Wikipedia page from the top 5 search results, and annotates a long answer (typically a paragraph) and a short answer (one or more entities) if present on the page, or marks null if no long/short answer is present. The public release consists of 307,373 training examples with single annotations; 7,830 examples with 5-way annotations for development data; and a further 7,842 examples with 5-way annotated sequestered as test data. We present experiments validating quality of the data. We also describe analysis of 25-way annotations on 302 examples, giving insights into human variability on the annotation task. We introduce robust metrics for the purposes of evaluating question answering systems; demonstrate high human upper bounds on these metrics; and establish baseline results using competitive methods drawn from related literature.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have reached striking performance in many natural language processing tasks. This has renewed interest in whether these generic sequence processing devices are inducing genuine linguistic knowledge. Nearly all current analytical studies, however, initialize the RNNs with a vocabulary of known words, and feed them tokenized input during training. We present a multi-lingual study of the linguistic knowledge encoded in RNNs trained as character-level language models, on input data with word boundaries removed. These networks face a tougher and more cognitively realistic task, having to discover any useful linguistic unit from scratch based on input statistics. The results show that our {``}near tabula rasa{''} RNNs are mostly able to solve morphological, syntactic and semantic tasks that intuitively presuppose word-level knowledge, and indeed they learned, to some extent, to track word boundaries. Our study opens the door to speculations about the necessity of an explicit, rigid word lexicon in language learning and usage.
Domain-specific goal-oriented dialogue systems typically require modeling three types of inputs, namely, (i) the knowledge-base associated with the domain, (ii) the history of the conversation, which is a sequence of utterances, and (iii) the current utterance for which the response needs to be generated. While modeling these inputs, current state-of-the-art models such as Mem2Seq typically ignore the rich structure inherent in the knowledge graph and the sentences in the conversation context. Inspired by the recent success of structure-aware Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) for various NLP tasks such as machine translation, semantic role labeling, and document dating, we propose a memory-augmented GCN for goal-oriented dialogues. Our model exploits (i) the entity relation graph in a knowledge-base and (ii) the dependency graph associated with an utterance to compute richer representations for words and entities. Further, we take cognizance of the fact that in certain situations, such as when the conversation is in a code-mixed language, dependency parsers may not be available. We show that in such situations we could use the global word co-occurrence graph to enrich the representations of utterances. We experiment with four datasets: (i) the modified DSTC2 dataset, (ii) recently released code-mixed versions of DSTC2 dataset in four languages, (iii) Wizard-of-Oz style CAM676 dataset, and (iv) Wizard-of-Oz style MultiWOZ dataset. On all four datasets our method outperforms existing methods, on a wide range of evaluation metrics.
We present a novel semantic framework for modeling linguistic expressions of generalization{---} generic, habitual, and episodic statements{---}as combinations of simple, real-valued referential properties of predicates and their arguments. We use this framework to construct a dataset covering the entirety of the Universal Dependencies English Web Treebank. We use this dataset to probe the efficacy of type-level and token-level information{---}including hand-engineered features and static (GloVe) and contextual (ELMo) word embeddings{---}for predicting expressions of generalization.
We provide the first computational treatment of fused-heads constructions (FHs), focusing on the numeric fused-heads (NFHs). FHs constructions are noun phrases in which the head noun is missing and is said to be {``}fused{''} with its dependent modifier. This missing information is implicit and is important for sentence understanding. The missing references are easily filled in by humans but pose a challenge for computational models. We formulate the handling of FHs as a two stages process: Identification of the FH construction and resolution of the missing head. We explore the NFH phenomena in large corpora of English text and create (1) a data set and a highly accurate method for NFH identification; (2) a 10k examples (1 M tokens) crowd-sourced data set of NFH resolution; and (3) a neural baseline for the NFH resolution task. We release our code and data set, to foster further research into this challenging problem.
Online debates allow people to express their persuasive abilities and provide exciting opportunities for understanding persuasion. Prior studies have focused on studying persuasion in debate content, but without accounting for each debater{'}s history or exploring the progression of a debater{'}s persuasive ability. We study debater skill by modeling how participants progress over time in a collection of debates from Debate.org. We build on a widely used model of skill in two-player games and augment it with linguistic features of a debater{'}s content. We show that online debaters{'} skill levels do tend to improve over time. Incorporating linguistic profiles leads to more robust skill estimation than winning records alone. Notably, we find that an interaction feature combining uncertainty cues (hedging) with terms strongly associated with either side of a particular debate (fightin{'} words) is more predictive than either feature on its own, indicating the importance of fine- grained linguistic features.
Until now, grammatical error correction (GEC) has been primarily evaluated on text written by non-native English speakers, with a focus on student essays. This paper enables GEC development on text written by native speakers by providing a new data set and metric. We present a multiple-reference test corpus for GEC that includes 4,000 sentences in two new domains (formal and informal writing by native English speakers) and 2,000 sentences from a diverse set of non-native student writing. We also collect human judgments of several GEC systems on this new test set and perform a meta-evaluation, assessing how reliable automatic metrics are across these domains. We find that commonly used GEC metrics have inconsistent performance across domains, and therefore we propose a new ensemble metric that is robust on all three domains of text.
We introduce Morse, a recurrent encoder-decoder model that produces morphological analyses of each word in a sentence. The encoder turns the relevant information about the word and its context into a fixed size vector representation and the decoder generates the sequence of characters for the lemma followed by a sequence of individual morphological features. We show that generating morphological features individually rather than as a combined tag allows the model to handle rare or unseen tags and to outperform whole-tag models. In addition, generating morphological features as a sequence rather than, for example, an unordered set allows our model to produce an arbitrary number of features that represent multiple inflectional groups in morphologically complex languages. We obtain state-of-the-art results in nine languages of different morphological complexity under low-resource, high-resource, and transfer learning settings. We also introduce TrMor2018, a new high-accuracy Turkish morphology data set. Our Morse implementation and the TrMor2018 data set are available online to support future research.1See https://github.com/ai-ku/Morse.jl for a Morse implementation in Julia/Knet (Yuret, 2016) and https://github.com/ai-ku/TrMor2018 for the new Turkish data set.
In this paper we introduce domain detection as a new natural language processing task. We argue that the ability to detect textual segments that are domain-heavy (i.e., sentences or phrases that are representative of and provide evidence for a given domain) could enhance the robustness and portability of various text classification applications. We propose an encoder-detector framework for domain detection and bootstrap classifiers with multiple instance learning. The model is hierarchically organized and suited to multilabel classification. We demonstrate that despite learning with minimal supervision, our model can be applied to text spans of different granularities, languages, and genres. We also showcase the potential of domain detection for text summarization.
We introduce an architecture to learn joint multilingual sentence representations for 93 languages, belonging to more than 30 different families and written in 28 different scripts. Our system uses a single BiLSTM encoder with a shared byte-pair encoding vocabulary for all languages, which is coupled with an auxiliary decoder and trained on publicly available parallel corpora. This enables us to learn a classifier on top of the resulting embeddings using English annotated data only, and transfer it to any of the 93 languages without any modification. Our experiments in cross-lingual natural language inference (XNLI data set), cross-lingual document classification (MLDoc data set), and parallel corpus mining (BUCC data set) show the effectiveness of our approach. We also introduce a new test set of aligned sentences in 112 languages, and show that our sentence embeddings obtain strong results in multilingual similarity search even for low- resource languages. Our implementation, the pre-trained encoder, and the multilingual test set are available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/LASER.
Contextual representation models have achieved great success in improving various downstream natural language processing tasks. However, these language-model-based encoders are difficult to train due to their large parameter size and high computational complexity. By carefully examining the training procedure, we observe that the softmax layer, which predicts a distribution of the target word, often induces significant overhead, especially when the vocabulary size is large. Therefore, we revisit the design of the output layer and consider directly predicting the pre-trained embedding of the target word for a given context. When applied to ELMo, the proposed approach achieves a 4-fold speedup and eliminates 80{\%} trainable parameters while achieving competitive performance on downstream tasks. Further analysis shows that the approach maintains the speed advantage under various settings, even when the sentence encoder is scaled up.
This paper investigates the ability of artificial neural networks to judge the grammatical acceptability of a sentence, with the goal of testing their linguistic competence. We introduce the Corpus of Linguistic Acceptability (CoLA), a set of 10,657 English sentences labeled as grammatical or ungrammatical from published linguistics literature. As baselines, we train several recurrent neural network models on acceptability classification, and find that our models outperform unsupervised models by Lau et al. (2016) on CoLA. Error-analysis on specific grammatical phenomena reveals that both Lau et al.{'}s models and ours learn systematic generalizations like subject-verb-object order. However, all models we test perform far below human level on a wide range of grammatical constructions.
The best solution of structured prediction models in NLP is often inaccurate because of limited expressive power of the model or to non-exact parameter estimation. One way to mitigate this problem is sampling candidate solutions from the model{'}s solution space, reasoning that effective exploration of this space should yield high-quality solutions. Unfortunately, sampling is often computationally hard and many works hence back-off to sub-optimal strategies, such as extraction of the best scoring solutions of the model, which are not as diverse as sampled solutions. In this paper we propose a perturbation-based approach where sampling from a probabilistic model is computationally efficient. We present a learning algorithm for the variance of the perturbations, and empirically demonstrate its importance. Moreover, while finding the argmax in our model is intractable, we propose an efficient and effective approximation. We apply our framework to cross-lingual dependency parsing across 72 corpora from 42 languages and to lightly supervised dependency parsing across 13 corpora from 12 languages, and demonstrate strong results in terms of both the quality of the entire solution list and of the final solution.1
Conventional neural autoregressive decoding commonly assumes a fixed left-to-right generation order, which may be sub-optimal. In this work, we propose a novel decoding algorithm{---} InDIGO{---}which supports flexible sequence generation in arbitrary orders through insertion operations. We extend Transformer, a state-of-the-art sequence generation model, to efficiently implement the proposed approach, enabling it to be trained with either a pre-defined generation order or adaptive orders obtained from beam-search. Experiments on four real-world tasks, including word order recovery, machine translation, image caption, and code generation, demonstrate that our algorithm can generate sequences following arbitrary orders, while achieving competitive or even better performance compared with the conventional left-to-right generation. The generated sequences show that InDIGO adopts adaptive generation orders based on input information.
We analyze human{'}s disagreements about the validity of natural language inferences. We show that, very often, disagreements are not dismissible as annotation {``}noise{''}, but rather persist as we collect more ratings and as we vary the amount of context provided to raters. We further show that the type of uncertainty captured by current state-of-the-art models for natural language inference is not reflective of the type of uncertainty present in human disagreements. We discuss implications of our results in relation to the recognizing textual entailment (RTE)/natural language inference (NLI) task. We argue for a refined evaluation objective that requires models to explicitly capture the full distribution of plausible human judgments.
Neural dependency parsing has proven very effective, achieving state-of-the-art results on numerous domains and languages. Unfortunately, it requires large amounts of labeled data, which is costly and laborious to create. In this paper we propose a self-training algorithm that alleviates this annotation bottleneck by training a parser on its own output. Our Deep Contextualized Self-training (DCST) algorithm utilizes representation models trained on sequence labeling tasks that are derived from the parser{'}s output when applied to unlabeled data, and integrates these models with the base parser through a gating mechanism. We conduct experiments across multiple languages, both in low resource in-domain and in cross-domain setups, and demonstrate that DCST substantially outperforms traditional self-training as well as recent semi-supervised training methods.1
Many natural language processing tasks require discriminating the particular meaning of a word in context, but building corpora for developing sense-aware models can be a challenge. We present a large resource of example usages for words having a particular meaning, called Paraphrase-Sense-Tagged Sentences (PSTS). Built on the premise that a word{'}s paraphrases instantiate its fine-grained meanings (i.e., bug has different meanings corresponding to its paraphrases fly and microbe) the resource contains up to 10,000 sentences for each of 3 million target-paraphrase pairs where the target word takes on the meaning of the paraphrase. We describe an automatic method based on bilingual pivoting used to enumerate sentences for PSTS, and present two models for ranking PSTS sentences based on their quality. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of PSTS by using it to build a dataset for the task of hypernym prediction in context. Training a model on this automatically generated dataset produces accuracy that is competitive with a model trained on smaller datasets crafted with some manual effort.
Latent structure models are a powerful tool for modeling compositional data, discovering linguistic structure, and building NLP pipelines. They are appealing for two main reasons: they allow incorporating structural bias during training, leading to more accurate models; and they allow discovering hidden linguistic structure, which provides better interpretability. This tutorial will cover recent advances in discrete latent structure models. We discuss their motivation, potential, and limitations, then explore in detail three strategies for designing such models: gradient approximation, reinforcement learning, and end-to-end differentiable methods. We highlight connections among all these methods, enumerating their strengths and weaknesses. The models we present and analyze have been applied to a wide variety of NLP tasks, including sentiment analysis, natural language inference, language modeling, machine translation, and semantic parsing. Examples and evaluation will be covered throughout. After attending the tutorial, a practitioner will be better informed about which method is best suited for their problem.
This tutorial is on representing and processing sentence meaning in the form of labeled directed graphs. The tutorial will (a) briefly review relevant background in formal and linguistic semantics; (b) semi-formally define a unified abstract view on different flavors of semantic graphs and associated terminology; (c) survey common frameworks for graph-based meaning representation and available graph banks; and (d) offer a technical overview of a representative selection of different parsing approaches.
Discourse processing is a suite of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks to uncover linguistic structures from texts at several levels, which can support many downstream applications. This involves identifying the topic structure, the coherence structure, the coreference structure, and the conversation structure for conversational discourse. Taken together, these structures can inform text summarization, machine translation, essay scoring, sentiment analysis, information extraction, question answering, and thread recovery. The tutorial starts with an overview of basic concepts in discourse analysis {--} monologue vs. conversation, synchronous vs. asynchronous conversation, and key linguistic structures in discourse analysis. We also give an overview of linguistic structures and corresponding discourse analysis tasks that discourse researchers are generally interested in, as well as key applications on which these discourse structures have an impact.
In the last twenty years, political scientists started adopting and developing natural language processing (NLP) methods more actively in order to exploit text as an additional source of data in their analyses. Over the last decade the usage of computational methods for analysis of political texts has drastically expanded in scope, allowing for a sustained growth of the text-as-data community in political science. In political science, NLP methods have been extensively used for a number of analyses types and tasks, including inferring policy position of actors from textual evidence, detecting topics in political texts, and analyzing stylistic aspects of political texts (e.g., assessing the role of language ambiguity in framing the political agenda). Just like in numerous other domains, much of the work on computational analysis of political texts has been enabled and facilitated by the development of resources such as, the topically coded electoral programmes (e.g., the Manifesto Corpus) or topically coded legislative texts (e.g., the Comparative Agenda Project). Political scientists created resources and used available NLP methods to process textual data largely in isolation from the NLP community. At the same time, NLP researchers addressed closely related tasks such as election prediction, ideology classification, and stance detection. In other words, these two communities have been largely agnostic of one another, with NLP researchers mostly unaware of interesting applications in political science and political scientists not applying cutting-edge NLP methodology to their problems. The main goal of this tutorial is to systematize and analyze the body of research work on political texts from both communities. We aim to provide a gentle, all-round introduction to methods and tasks related to computational analysis of political texts. Our vision is to bring the two research communities closer to each other and contribute to faster and more significant developments in this interdisciplinary research area.
This tutorial examines the role of Wikipedia in tasks related to text analysis and retrieval. Text analysis tasks, which take advantage of Wikipedia, include coreference resolution, word sense and entity disambiguation and information extraction. In information retrieval, a better understanding of the structure and meaning of queries helps in matching queries against documents, clustering search results, answer and entity retrieval and retrieving knowledge panels for queries asking about popular entities.
This introductory tutorial addresses the advances in deep Bayesian learning for natural language with ubiquitous applications ranging from speech recognition to document summarization, text classification, text segmentation, information extraction, image caption generation, sentence generation, dialogue control, sentiment classification, recommendation system, question answering and machine translation, to name a few. Traditionally, {``}deep learning{''} is taken to be a learning process where the inference or optimization is based on the real-valued deterministic model. The {``}semantic structure{''} in words, sentences, entities, actions and documents drawn from a large vocabulary may not be well expressed or correctly optimized in mathematical logic or computer programs. The {``}distribution function{''} in discrete or continuous latent variable model for natural language may not be properly decomposed or estimated. This tutorial addresses the fundamentals of statistical models and neural networks, and focus on a series of advanced Bayesian models and deep models including hierarchical Dirichlet process, Chinese restaurant process, hierarchical Pitman-Yor process, Indian buffet process, recurrent neural network, long short-term memory, sequence-to-sequence model, variational auto-encoder, generative adversarial network, attention mechanism, memory-augmented neural network, skip neural network, stochastic neural network, predictive state neural network and policy neural network. We present how these models are connected and why they work for a variety of applications on symbolic and complex patterns in natural language. The variational inference and sampling method are formulated to tackle the optimization for complicated models. The word and sentence embeddings, clustering and co-clustering are merged with linguistic and semantic constraints. A series of case studies and domain applications are presented to tackle different issues in deep Bayesian processing, learning and understanding. At last, we will point out a number of directions and outlooks for future studies.
In this tutorial, we provide a comprehensive survey of the exciting recent work on cutting-edge weakly-supervised and unsupervised cross-lingual word representations. After providing a brief history of supervised cross-lingual word representations, we focus on: 1) how to induce weakly-supervised and unsupervised cross-lingual word representations in truly resource-poor settings where bilingual supervision cannot be guaranteed; 2) critical examinations of different training conditions and requirements under which unsupervised algorithms can and cannot work effectively; 3) more robust methods for distant language pairs that can mitigate instability issues and low performance for distant language pairs; 4) how to comprehensively evaluate such representations; and 5) diverse applications that benefit from cross-lingual word representations (e.g., MT, dialogue, cross-lingual sequence labeling and structured prediction applications, cross-lingual IR).
This course aims to introduce students to an exciting and dynamic area that has witnessed remarkable growth over the past 36 months. Argument mining builds on opinion mining, sentiment analysis and related to tasks to automatically extract not just *what* people think, but *why* they hold the opinions they do. From being largely beyond the state of the art barely five years ago, there are now many hundreds of papers on the topic, millions of dollars of commercial and research investment, and the 6th ACL workshop on the topic will be in Florence in 2019. The tutors have delivered tutorials on argument mining at ACL 2016, at IJCAI 2016 and at ESSLLI 2017; for ACL 2019, we have developed a tutorial that provides a synthesis of the major advances in the area over the past three years.
In this tutorial, we wish to cover the foundational, methodological, and system development aspects of translating structured data (such as data in tabular form) and knowledge bases (such as knowledge graphs) into natural language. The attendees of the tutorial will be able to take away from this tutorial, (1) the basic ideas around how modern NLP and NLG techniques could be applied to describe and summarize textual data in format that is non-linguistic in nature or has some structure, and (2) a few interesting open-ended questions, which could lead to significant research contributions in future. The tutorial aims to convey challenges and nuances in structured data translation, data representation techniques, and domain adaptable solutions for translation of the data into natural language form. Various solutions, starting from traditional rule based/heuristic driven and modern data-driven and ultra-modern deep-neural style architectures will be discussed, followed by a brief discussion on evaluation and quality estimation. A significant portion of the tutorial will be dedicated towards unsupervised, scalable, and adaptable solutions, given that systems for such an important task will never naturally enjoy sustainable large scale domain independent labeled (parallel) data.
This study develops an incorrect example retrieval system, called Sakura, using a large-scale Lang-8 dataset for Japanese language learners. Existing example retrieval systems do not include grammatically incorrect examples or present only a few examples, if any. If a retrieval system has a wide coverage of incorrect examples along with the correct counterpart, learners can revise their composition themselves. Considering the usability of retrieving incorrect examples, our proposed system uses a large-scale corpus to expand the coverage of incorrect examples and presents correct expressions along with incorrect expressions. Our intrinsic and extrinsic evaluations indicate that our system is more useful than a previous system.
Many annotation tools have been developed, covering a wide variety of tasks and providing features like user management, pre-processing, and automatic labeling. However, all of these tools use Graphical User Interfaces, and often require substantial effort to install and configure. This paper presents a new annotation tool that is designed to fill the niche of a lightweight interface for users with a terminal-based workflow. SLATE supports annotation at different scales (spans of characters, tokens, and lines, or a document) and of different types (free text, labels, and links), with easily customisable keybindings, and unicode support. In a user study comparing with other tools it was consistently the easiest to install and use. SLATE fills a need not met by existing systems, and has already been used to annotate two corpora, one of which involved over 250 hours of annotation effort.
We present a modular framework for the rapid-prototyping of linguistic, web-based, visual analytics applications. Our framework gives developers access to a rich set of machine learning and natural language processing steps, through encapsulating them into micro-services and combining them into a computational pipeline. This processing pipeline is auto-configured based on the requirements of the visualization front-end, making the linguistic processing and visualization design, detached independent development tasks. This paper describes the constellation and modality of our framework, which continues to support the efficient development of various human-in-the-loop, linguistic visual analytics research techniques and applications.
With the increasing democratization of electronic media, vast information resources are available in less-frequently-taught languages such as Swahili or Somali. That information, which may be crucially important and not available elsewhere, can be difficult for monolingual English speakers to effectively access. In this paper we present an end-to-end cross-lingual information retrieval (CLIR) and summarization system for low-resource languages that 1) enables English speakers to search foreign language repositories of text and audio using English queries, 2) summarizes the retrieved documents in English with respect to a particular information need, and 3) provides complete transcriptions and translations as needed. The SARAL system achieved the top end-to-end performance in the most recent IARPA MATERIAL CLIR+summarization evaluations. Our demonstration system provides end-to-end open query retrieval and summarization capability, and presents the original source text or audio, speech transcription, and machine translation, for two low resource languages.
Research on the automatic generation of poetry, the treasure of human culture, has lasted for decades. Most existing systems, however, are merely model-oriented, which input some user-specified keywords and directly complete the generation process in one pass, with little user participation. We believe that the machine, being a collaborator or an assistant, should not replace human beings in poetic creation. Therefore, we proposed Jiuge, a human-machine collaborative Chinese classical poetry generation system. Unlike previous systems, Jiuge allows users to revise the unsatisfied parts of a generated poem draft repeatedly. According to the revision, the poem will be dynamically updated and regenerated. After the revision and modification procedure, the user can write a satisfying poem together with Jiuge system collaboratively. Besides, Jiuge can accept multi-modal inputs, such as keywords, plain text or images. By exposing the options of poetry genres, styles and revision modes, Jiuge, acting as a professional assistant, allows constant and active participation of users in poetic creation.
Extracting events in the form of who is involved in what at when and where from text, is one of the core information extraction tasks that has many applications such as web search and question answering. We present a system for rapidly customizing event extraction capability to find new event types (what happened) and their arguments (who, when, and where). To enable extracting events of new types, we develop a novel approach to allow a user to find, expand and filter event triggers by exploring an unannotated development corpus. The system will then generate mention level event annotation automatically and train a neural network model for finding the corresponding events. To enable extracting arguments for new event types, the system makes novel use of the ACE annotation dataset to train a generic argument attachment model for extracting Actor, Place, and Time. We demonstrate that with less than 10 minutes of human effort per event type, the system achieves good performance for 67 novel event types. Experiments also show that the generic argument attachment model performs well on the novel event types. Our system (code, UI, documentation, demonstration video) is released as open source.
The Transformer is a sequence model that forgoes traditional recurrent architectures in favor of a fully attention-based approach. Besides improving performance, an advantage of using attention is that it can also help to interpret a model by showing how the model assigns weight to different input elements. However, the multi-layer, multi-head attention mechanism in the Transformer model can be difficult to decipher. To make the model more accessible, we introduce an open-source tool that visualizes attention at multiple scales, each of which provides a unique perspective on the attention mechanism. We demonstrate the tool on BERT and OpenAI GPT-2 and present three example use cases: detecting model bias, locating relevant attention heads, and linking neurons to model behavior.
Over 60{\%} of Australian PhD graduates land their first job after graduation outside academia, but this job market remains largely hidden to these job seekers. Employers{'} low awareness and interest in attracting PhD graduates means that the term {``}PhD{''} is rarely used as a keyword in job advertisements; 80{\%} of companies looking to employ similar researchers do not specifically ask for a PhD qualification. As a result, typing in {``}PhD{''} to a job search engine tends to return mostly academic jobs. We set out to make the market for advanced research skills more visible to job seekers. In this paper, we present PostAc, an online platform of authentic job postings that helps PhD graduates sharpen their career thinking. The platform is underpinned by research on the key factors that identify what an employer is looking for when they want to hire a highly skilled researcher. Its ranking model leverages the free-form text embedded in the job description to quantify the most sought-after PhD skills and educate information seekers about the Australian job-market appetite for PhD skills. The platform makes visible the geographic location, industry sector, job title, working hours, continuity, and wage of the research intensive jobs. This is the first data-driven exploration in this field. Both empirical results and online platform will be presented in this paper.
This paper describes a spoken-language end-to-end task-oriented dialogue system for small embedded devices such as home appliances. While the current system implements a smart alarm clock with advanced calendar scheduling functionality, the system is designed to make it easy to port to other application domains (e.g., the dialogue component factors out domain-specific execution from domain-general actions such as requesting and updating slot values). The system does not require internet connectivity because all components, including speech recognition, natural language understanding, dialogue management, execution and text-to-speech, run locally on the embedded device (our demo uses a Raspberry Pi). This simplifies deployment, minimizes server costs and most importantly, eliminates user privacy risks. The demo video in alarm domain is here youtu.be/N3IBMGocvHU
We introduce an open-source web-based data annotation framework (AlpacaTag) for sequence tagging tasks such as named-entity recognition (NER). The distinctive advantages of AlpacaTag are three-fold. 1) Active intelligent recommendation: dynamically suggesting annotations and sampling the most informative unlabeled instances with a back-end active learned model; 2) Automatic crowd consolidation: enhancing real-time inter-annotator agreement by merging inconsistent labels from multiple annotators; 3) Real-time model deployment: users can deploy their models in downstream systems while new annotations are being made. AlpacaTag is a comprehensive solution for sequence labeling tasks, ranging from rapid tagging with recommendations powered by active learning and auto-consolidation of crowd annotations to real-time model deployment.
We present ConvLab, an open-source multi-domain end-to-end dialog system platform, that enables researchers to quickly set up experiments with reusable components and compare a large set of different approaches, ranging from conventional pipeline systems to end-to-end neural models, in common environments. ConvLab offers a set of fully annotated datasets and associated pre-trained reference models. As a showcase, we extend the MultiWOZ dataset with user dialog act annotations to train all component models and demonstrate how ConvLab makes it easy and effortless to conduct complicated experiments in multi-domain end-to-end dialog settings.
We present a demonstration of our system, which implements online learning for neural machine translation in a production environment. These techniques allow the system to continuously learn from the corrections provided by the translators. We implemented an end-to-end platform integrating our machine translation servers to one of the most common user interfaces for professional translators: SDL Trados Studio. We pretend to save post-editing effort as the machine is continuously learning from its mistakes and adapting the models to a specific domain or user style.
We present a novel abstraction framework called FASTDial for designing task oriented dialogue agents, built on top of the OpenDial toolkit. This framework is meant to facilitate prototyping and development of dialogue systems from scratch also by non tech savvy especially when limited training data is available. To this end, we use a generic and simple frame-slots data-structure with pre-defined dialogue policies that allows for fast design and implementation at the price of some flexibility reduction. Moreover, it allows for minimizing programming effort and domain expert training time, by hiding away many implementation details. We provide a system demonstration screencast video in the following link: https://vimeo.com/329840716
We present a demonstration of a neural interactive-predictive system for tackling multimodal sequence to sequence tasks. The system generates text predictions to different sequence to sequence tasks: machine translation, image and video captioning. These predictions are revised by a human agent, who introduces corrections in the form of characters. The system reacts to each correction, providing alternative hypotheses, compelling with the feedback provided by the user. The final objective is to reduce the human effort required during this correction process. This system is implemented following a client-server architecture. For accessing the system, we developed a website, which communicates with the neural model, hosted in a local server. From this website, the different tasks can be tackled following the interactive{--}predictive framework. We open-source all the code developed for building this system. The demonstration in hosted in http://casmacat.prhlt.upv.es/interactive-seq2seq.
In this paper, we introduce NeuralClassifier, a toolkit for neural hierarchical multi-label text classification. NeuralClassifier is designed for quick implementation of neural models for hierarchical multi-label classification task, which is more challenging and common in real-world scenarios. A salient feature is that NeuralClassifier currently provides a variety of text encoders, such as FastText, TextCNN, TextRNN, RCNN, VDCNN, DPCNN, DRNN, AttentiveConvNet and Transformer encoder, etc. It also supports other text classification scenarios, including binary-class and multi-class classification. Built on PyTorch, the core operations are calculated in batch, making the toolkit efficient with the acceleration of GPU. Experiments show that models built in our toolkit achieve comparable performance with reported results in the literature.
In this paper, we present ADVISER - an open source dialog system framework for education and research purposes. This system supports multi-domain task-oriented conversations in two languages. It additionally provides a flexible architecture in which modules can be arbitrarily combined or exchanged - allowing for easy switching between rules-based and neural network based implementations. Furthermore, ADVISER offers a transparent, user-friendly framework designed for interdisciplinary collaboration: from a flexible back end, allowing easy integration of new features, to an intuitive graphical user interface supporting nontechnical users.
In this paper, we propose an efficient Knowledge Constraint Fine-grained Entity Typing Annotation Tool, which further improves the entity typing process through entity linking together with some practical functions.
This paper describes the MARDY corpus annotation environment developed for a collaboration between political science and computational linguistics. The tool realizes the complete workflow necessary for annotating a large newspaper text collection with rich information about claims (demands) raised by politicians and other actors, including claim and actor spans, relations, and polarities. In addition to the annotation GUI, the tool supports the identification of relevant documents, text pre-processing, user management, integration of external knowledge bases, annotation comparison and merging, statistical analysis, and the incorporation of machine learning models as {``}pseudo-annotators{''}.
The rapid improvement of language models has raised the specter of abuse of text generation systems. This progress motivates the development of simple methods for detecting generated text that can be used by non-experts. In this work, we introduce GLTR, a tool to support humans in detecting whether a text was generated by a model. GLTR applies a suite of baseline statistical methods that can detect generation artifacts across multiple sampling schemes. In a human-subjects study, we show that the annotation scheme provided by GLTR improves the human detection-rate of fake text from 54{\%} to 72{\%} without any prior training. GLTR is open-source and publicly deployed, and has already been widely used to detect generated outputs.
We introduce OpenKiwi, a Pytorch-based open source framework for translation quality estimation. OpenKiwi supports training and testing of word-level and sentence-level quality estimation systems, implementing the winning systems of the WMT 2015{--}18 quality estimation campaigns. We benchmark OpenKiwi on two datasets from WMT 2018 (English-German SMT and NMT), yielding state-of-the-art performance on the word-level tasks and near state-of-the-art in the sentence-level tasks.
The Intelligent Conversation Engine: Code and Pre-trained Systems (Microsoft Icecaps) is an upcoming open-source natural language processing repository. Icecaps wraps TensorFlow functionality in a modular component-based architecture, presenting an intuitive and flexible paradigm for constructing sophisticated learning setups. Capabilities include multitask learning between models with shared parameters, upgraded language model decoding features, a range of built-in architectures, and a user-friendly data processing pipeline. The system is targeted toward conversational tasks, exploring diverse response generation, coherence, and knowledge grounding. Icecaps also provides pre-trained conversational models that can be either used directly or loaded for fine-tuning or bootstrapping other models; these models power an online demo of our framework.
This work presents PerspectroScope, a web-based system which lets users query a discussion-worthy natural language claim, and extract and visualize various perspectives in support or against the claim, along with evidence supporting each perspective. The system thus lets users explore various perspectives that could touch upon aspects of the issue at hand.The system is built as a combination of retrieval engines and learned textual-entailment-like classifiers built using a few recent developments in natural language understanding. To make the system more adaptive, expand its coverage, and improve its decisions over time, our platform employs various mechanisms to get corrections from the users. PerspectroScope is available at github.com/CogComp/perspectroscope Web demo link: http://orwell.seas.upenn.edu:4002/ Link to demo video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MXBTR1Sp3Bs
While the role of humans is increasingly recognized in machine learning community, representation of and interaction with models in current human-in-the-loop machine learning (HITL-ML) approaches are too low-level and far-removed from human{'}s conceptual models. We demonstrate HEIDL, a prototype HITL-ML system that exposes the machine-learned model through high-level, explainable linguistic expressions formed of predicates representing semantic structure of text. In HEIDL, human{'}s role is elevated from simply evaluating model predictions to interpreting and even updating the model logic directly by enabling interaction with rule predicates themselves. Raising the currency of interaction to such semantic levels calls for new interaction paradigms between humans and machines that result in improved productivity for text analytics model development process. Moreover, by involving humans in the process, the human-machine co-created models generalize better to unseen data as domain experts are able to instill their expertise by extrapolating from what has been learned by automated algorithms from few labelled data.
Literacy is crucial for functioning in modern society. It underpins everything from educational attainment and employment opportunities to health outcomes. We describe My Turn To Read, an app that uses interleaved reading to help developing and struggling readers improve reading skills while reading for meaning and pleasure. We hypothesize that the longer-term impact of the app will be to help users become better, more confident readers with an increased stamina for extended reading. We describe the technology and present preliminary evidence in support of this hypothesis.
We introduce GrapAL (Graph database of Academic Literature), a versatile tool for exploring and investigating a knowledge base of scientific literature that was semi-automatically constructed using NLP methods. GrapAL fills many informational needs expressed by researchers. At the core of GrapAL is a Neo4j graph database with an intuitive schema and a simple query language. In this paper, we describe the basic elements of GrapAL, how to use it, and several use cases such as finding experts on a given topic for peer reviewing, discovering indirect connections between biomedical entities, and computing citation-based metrics. We open source the demo code to help other researchers develop applications that build on GrapAL.
We present ClaimPortal, a web-based platform for monitoring, searching, checking, and analyzing English factual claims on Twitter from the American political domain. We explain the architecture of ClaimPortal, its components and functions, and the user interface. While the last several years have witnessed a substantial growth in interests and efforts in the area of computational fact-checking, ClaimPortal is a novel infrastructure in that fact-checkers have largely skipped factual claims in tweets. It can be a highly powerful tool to both general web users and fact-checkers. It will also be an educational resource in helping cultivate a society that is less susceptible to falsehoods.
We introduce Texar, an open-source toolkit aiming to support the broad set of text generation tasks that transform any inputs into natural language, such as machine translation, summarization, dialog, content manipulation, and so forth. With the design goals of modularity, versatility, and extensibility in mind, Texar extracts common patterns underlying the diverse tasks and methodologies, creates a library of highly reusable modules and functionalities, and allows arbitrary model architectures and algorithmic paradigms. In Texar, model architecture, inference, and learning processes are properly decomposed. Modules at a high concept level can be freely assembled or plugged in/swapped out. Texar is thus particularly suitable for researchers and practitioners to do fast prototyping and experimentation. The versatile toolkit also fosters technique sharing across different text generation tasks. Texar supports both TensorFlow and PyTorch, and is released under Apache License 2.0 at https://www.texar.io.
Embeddings are a fundamental component of many modern machine learning and natural language processing models. Understanding them and visualizing them is essential for gathering insights about the information they capture and the behavior of the models. In this paper, we introduce Parallax, a tool explicitly designed for this task. Parallax allows the user to use both state-of-the-art embedding analysis methods (PCA and t-SNE) and a simple yet effective task-oriented approach where users can explicitly define the axes of the projection through algebraic formulae. {\%}consists in projecting them in two-dimensional planes without any interpretable semantics associated to the axes of the projection, which makes detailed analyses and comparison among multiple sets of embeddings challenging. In this approach, embeddings are projected into a semantically meaningful subspace, which enhances interpretability and allows for more fine-grained analysis. We demonstrate the power of the tool and the proposed methodology through a series of case studies and a user study.
Flamb{\'e} is a machine learning experimentation framework built to accelerate the entire research life cycle. Flamb{\'e}{'}s main objective is to provide a unified interface for prototyping models, running experiments containing complex pipelines, monitoring those experiments in real-time, reporting results, and deploying a final model for inference. Flamb{\'e} achieves both flexibility and simplicity by allowing users to write custom code but instantly include that code as a component in a larger system which is represented by a concise configuration file format. We demonstrate the application of the framework through a cutting-edge multistage use case: fine-tuning and distillation of a state of the art pretrained language model used for text classification.
This paper introduces the first fine-grained modular tool for automatic summarization. Open source and written in Java, it is designed to be as straightforward as possible for end-users. Its modular architecture is meant to ease its maintenance and the development and integration of new modules. We hope that it will ease the work of researchers in automatic summarization by providing a reliable baseline for future works as well as an easy way to evaluate methods on different corpora.
We present TARGER, an open source neural argument mining framework for tagging arguments in free input texts and for keyword-based retrieval of arguments from an argument-tagged web-scale corpus. The currently available models are pre-trained on three recent argument mining datasets and enable the use of neural argument mining without any reproducibility effort on the user{'}s side. The open source code ensures portability to other domains and use cases.
In this paper, we introduce and demonstrate the online demo as well as the command line interface of a lexical normalization system (MoNoise) for a variety of languages. We further improve this model by using features from the original word for every normalization candidate. For comparison with future work, we propose the bundling of seven datasets in six languages to form a new benchmark, together with a novel evaluation metric which is particularly suitable for cross-dataset comparisons. MoNoise reaches a new state-of-art performance for six out of seven of these datasets. Furthermore, we allow the user to tune the {`}aggressiveness{'} of the normalization, and show how the model can be made more efficient with only a small loss in performance. The online demo can be found on: http://www.robvandergoot.com/monoise and the corresponding code on: https://bitbucket.org/robvanderg/monoise/
We introduce a method for generating suggestions on a given sentence for improving the proficiency level. In our approach, the sentence is transformed into a sequence of grammatical elements aimed at providing suggestions of more advanced grammar elements based on originals. The method involves parsing the sentence, identifying grammatical elements, and ranking related elements to recommend a higher level of grammatical element. We present a prototype tutoring system, Level-Up, that applies the method to English learners{'} essays in order to assist them in writing and reading. Evaluation on a set of essays shows that our method does assist user in writing.
We introduce a system aimed at improving and expanding second language learners{'} English vocabulary. In addition to word definitions, we provide rich lexical information such as collocations and grammar patterns for target words. We present Linggle Booster that takes an article, identifies target vocabulary, provides lexical information, and generates a quiz on target words. Linggle Booster also links named-entity to corresponding Wikipedia pages. Evaluation on a set of target words shows that the method have reasonably good performance in terms of generating useful and information for learning vocabulary.
Codification of free-text clinical narratives have long been recognised to be beneficial for secondary uses such as funding, insurance claim processing and research. In recent years, many researchers have studied the use of Natural Language Processing (NLP), related Machine Learning (ML) methods and techniques to resolve the problem of manual coding of clinical narratives. Most of the studies are focused on classification systems relevant to the U.S and there is a scarcity of studies relevant to Australian classification systems such as ICD-10-AM and ACHI. Therefore, we aim to develop a knowledge-based clinical auto-coding system, that utilise appropriate NLP and ML techniques to assign ICD-10-AM and ACHI codes to clinical records, while adhering to both local coding standards (Australian Coding Standard) and international guidelines that get updated and validated continuously.
There are a lot of noise texts surrounding a person in modern life. The traditional approach is to use spelling correction, yet the existing solutions are far from perfect. We propose robust to noise word embeddings model, which outperforms existing commonly used models, like fasttext and word2vec in different tasks. In addition, we investigate the noise robustness of current models in different natural language processing tasks. We propose extensions for modern models in three downstream tasks, i.e. text classification, named entity recognition and aspect extraction, which shows improvement in noise robustness over existing solutions.
Mental health research can benefit increasingly fruitfully from computational linguistics methods, given the abundant availability of language data in the internet and advances of computational tools. This interdisciplinary project will collect and analyse social media data of individuals diagnosed with bipolar disorder with regard to their recovery experiences. Personal recovery - living a satisfying and contributing life along symptoms of severe mental health issues - so far has only been investigated qualitatively with structured interviews and quantitatively with standardised questionnaires with mainly English-speaking participants inWestern countries. Complementary to this evidence, computational linguistic methods allow us to analyse first-person accounts shared online in large quantities, representing unstructured settings and a more heterogeneous, multilingual population, to draw a more complete picture of the aspects and mechanisms of personal recovery in bipolar disorder.
The adaptation of neural approaches to NLP is a landmark achievement that has called into question the utility of linguistics in the development of computational systems. This research proposal consequently explores this question in the context of a neural morphological analyzer for a polysynthetic language, St. Lawrence Island Yupik. It asks whether incorporating elements of Yupik linguistics into the implementation of the analyzer can improve performance, both in low-resource settings and in high-resource settings, where rich quantities of data are readily available.
Consumers read online reviews for insights which help them to make decisions. Given the large volumes of reviews, succinct review summaries are important for many applications. Existing research has focused on mining for opinions from only review texts and largely ignores the reviewers. However, reviewers have biases and may write lenient or harsh reviews; they may also have preferences towards some topics over others. Therefore, not all reviews are equal. Ignoring the biases in reviews can generate misleading summaries. We aim for summarization of reviews to include balanced opinions from reviewers of different biases and preferences. We propose to model reviewer biases from their review texts and rating distributions, and learn a bias-aware opinion representation. We further devise an approach for balanced opinion summarization of reviews using our bias-aware opinion representation.
Using rooted, directed and labeled graphs, Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) abstracts away from syntactic features such as word order and does not annotate every constituent in a sentence. AMR has been specified for English and was not supposed to be an Interlingua. However, several studies strived to overcome divergences in the annotations between English AMRs and those of their target languages by refining the annotation specification. Following this line of research, we have started to build the first Turkish AMR corpus by hand-annotating 100 sentences of the Turkish translation of the novel {``}The Little Prince{''} and comparing the results with the English AMRs available for the same corpus. The next step is to prepare the Turkish AMR annotation specification for training future annotators.
Written language often contains gender stereotypes, typically conveyed unintentionally by the author. To study the difference in how female and male authors portray people of different genders, we quantitatively evaluate and analyze the gender stereotypes in their writings on two different datasets and from multiple aspects. We show that writings by females on average have lower gender stereotype scores. We plan to study and interpret the distributions of gender stereotype scores of individual words, and how they differ between male and female writings. We also plan on using more datasets over the past century to study how the stereotypes in female and male writings evolved over time.
Question answering techniques have mainly been investigated in open domains. However, there are particular challenges in extending these open-domain techniques to extend into the biomedical domain. Question answering focusing on patients is less studied. We find that there are some challenges in patient question answering such as limited annotated data, lexical gap and quality of answer spans. We aim to address some of these gaps by extending and developing upon the literature to design a question answering system that can decide on the most appropriate answers for patients attempting to self-diagnose while including the ability to abstain from answering when confidence is low.
The unprompted patient experiences shared on patient forums contain a wealth of unexploited knowledge. Mining this knowledge and cross-linking it with biomedical literature, could expose novel insights, which could subsequently provide hypotheses for further clinical research. As of yet, automated methods for open knowledge discovery on patient forum text are lacking. Thus, in this research proposal, we outline future research into methods for mining, aggregating and cross-linking patient knowledge from online forums. Additionally, we aim to address how one could measure the credibility of this extracted knowledge.
Speech deficits are common symptoms amongParkinson{'}s Disease (PD) patients. The automatic assessment of speech signals is promising for the evaluation of the neurological state and the speech quality of the patients. Recently, progress has been made in applying machine learning and computational methods to automatically evaluate the speech of PD patients. In the present study, we plan to analyze the speech signals of PD patients and healthy control (HC) subjects in three different languages: German, Spanish, and Czech, with the aim to identify biomarkers to discriminate between PD patients and HC subjects and to evaluate the neurological state of the patients. Therefore, the main contribution of this study is the automatic classification of PD patients and HC subjects in different languages with focusing on phonation, articulation, and prosody. We will focus on an intelligibility analysis based on automatic speech recognition systems trained on these three languages. This is one of the first studies done that considers the evaluation of the speech of PD patients in different languages. The purpose of this research proposal is to build a model that can discriminate PD and HC subjects even when the language used for train and test is different.
This paper presents a more recent literature review on Natural Language Generation. In particular, we highlight the efforts for Brazilian Portuguese in order to show the available resources and the existent approaches for this language. We also focus on the approaches for generation from semantic representations (emphasizing the Abstract Meaning Representation formalism) as well as their advantages and limitations, including possible future directions.
Neural models at the sentence level often operate on the constituent words/tokens in a way that encodes the inductive bias of processing the input in a similar fashion to how humans do. However, there is no guarantee that the standard ordering of words is computationally efficient or optimal. To help mitigate this, we consider a dependency parse as a proxy for the inter-word dependencies in a sentence and simplify the sentence with respect to combinatorial objectives imposed on the sentence-parse pair. The associated optimization results in permuted sentences that are provably (approximately) optimal with respect to minimizing dependency parse lengths and that are demonstrably simpler. We evaluate our general-purpose permutations within a fine-tuning schema for the downstream task of subjectivity analysis. Our fine-tuned baselines reflect a new state of the art for the SUBJ dataset and the permutations we introduce lead to further improvements with a 2.0{\%} increase in classification accuracy (absolute) and a 45{\%} reduction in classification error (relative) over the previous state of the art.
As liberal states across the world face a decline in political participation by citizens, deliberative democracy is a promising solution for the public{'}s decreasing confidence and apathy towards the democratic process. Deliberative dialogue is method of public interaction that is fundamental to the concept of deliberative democracy. The ability to identify and predict consensus in the dialogues could bring greater accessibility and transparency to the face-to-face participatory process. The paper sets out a research plan for the first steps at automatically identifying and predicting consensus in a corpus of German language debates on hydraulic fracking. It proposes the use of a unique combination of lexical, sentiment, durational and further {`}derivative{'} features of adjacency pairs to train traditional classification models. In addition to this, the use of deep learning techniques to improve the accuracy of the classification and prediction tasks is also discussed. Preliminary results at the classification of utterances are also presented, with an F1 between 0.61 and 0.64 demonstrating that the task of recognising agreement is demanding but possible.
Reading comprehension (RC) through question answering is a useful method for evaluating if a reader understands a text. Standard accuracy metrics are used for evaluation, where high accuracy is taken as indicative of a good understanding. However, literature in quality learning suggests that task performance should also be evaluated on the undergone process to answer. The Question-Answer Relationship (QAR) is one of the strategies for evaluating a reader{'}s understanding based on their ability to select different sources of information depending on the question type. We propose the creation of a dataset to learn the QAR strategy with weak supervision. We expect to complement current work on reading comprehension by introducing a new setup for evaluation.
Paraphrases, rewordings of the same semantic meaning, are useful for improving generalization and translation. Unlike previous works that only explore paraphrases at the word or phrase level, we use different translations of the whole training data that are consistent in structure as paraphrases at the corpus level. We treat paraphrases as foreign languages, tag source sentences with paraphrase labels, and train on parallel paraphrases in the style of multilingual Neural Machine Translation (NMT). Our multi-paraphrase NMT that trains only on two languages outperforms the multilingual baselines. Adding paraphrases improves the rare word translation and increases entropy and diversity in lexical choice. Adding the source paraphrases boosts performance better than adding the target ones, while adding both lifts performance further. We achieve a BLEU score of 57.2 for French-to-English translation using 24 corpus-level paraphrases of the Bible, which outperforms the multilingual baselines and is +34.7 above the single-source single-target NMT baseline.
For the translation of agglutinative language such as typical Mongolian, unknown (UNK) words not only come from the quite restricted vocabulary, but also mostly from misunderstanding of the translation model to the morphological changes. In this study, we introduce a new adversarial training model to alleviate the UNK problem in Mongolian-Chinese machine translation. The training process can be described as three adversarial sub models (generator, value screener and discriminator), playing a win-win game. In this game, the added screener plays the role of emphasizing that the discriminator pays attention to the added Mongolian morphological noise in the form of pseudo-data and improving the training efficiency. The experimental results show that the newly emerged Mongolian-Chinese task is state-of-the-art. Under this premise, the training time is greatly shortened.
This work presents our ongoing research of unsupervised pretraining in neural machine translation (NMT). In our method, we initialize the weights of the encoder and decoder with two language models that are trained with monolingual data and then fine-tune the model on parallel data using Elastic Weight Consolidation (EWC) to avoid forgetting of the original language modeling task. We compare the regularization by EWC with the previous work that focuses on regularization by language modeling objectives. The positive result is that using EWC with the decoder achieves BLEU scores similar to the previous work. However, the model converges 2-3 times faster and does not require the original unlabeled training data during the fine-tuning stage. In contrast, the regularization using EWC is less effective if the original and new tasks are not closely related. We show that initializing the bidirectional NMT encoder with a left-to-right language model and forcing the model to remember the original left-to-right language modeling task limits the learning capacity of the encoder for the whole bidirectional context.
M{\=a}ori loanwords are widely used in New Zealand English for various social functions by New Zealanders within and outside of the M{\=a}ori community. Motivated by the lack of linguistic resources for studying how M{\=a}ori loanwords are used in social media, we present a new corpus of New Zealand English tweets. We collected tweets containing selected M{\=a}ori words that are likely to be known by New Zealanders who do not speak M{\=a}ori. Since over 30{\%} of these words turned out to be irrelevant, we manually annotated a sample of our tweets into relevant and irrelevant categories. This data was used to train machine learning models to automatically filter out irrelevant tweets.
Questions are an integral part of discourse. They provide structure and support the exchange of information. One linguistic theory, the Questions Under Discussion model, takes question structures as integral to the functioning of a coherent discourse. This theory has not been tested on the count of its validity for predicting observations in real dialogue data, however. In this submission, a system for ranking explicit and implicit questions by their appropriateness in a dialogue is presented. This system implements constraints and principles put forward in the linguistic literature.
When professional English teachers correct grammatically erroneous sentences written by English learners, they use various methods. The correction method depends on how much corrections a learner requires. In this paper, we propose a method for neural grammar error correction (GEC) that can control the degree of correction. We show that it is possible to actually control the degree of GEC by using new training data annotated with word edit rate. Thereby, diverse corrected sentences is obtained from a single erroneous sentence. Moreover, compared to a GEC model that does not use information on the degree of correction, the proposed method improves correction accuracy.
Recent work in cognitive neuroscience has introduced models for predicting distributional word meaning representations from brain imaging data. Such models have great potential, but the quality of their predictions has not yet been thoroughly evaluated from a computational linguistics point of view. Due to the limited size of available brain imaging datasets, standard quality metrics (e.g. similarity judgments and analogies) cannot be used. Instead, we investigate the use of several alternative measures for evaluating the predicted distributional space against a corpus-derived distributional space. We show that a state-of-the-art decoder, while performing impressively on metrics that are commonly used in cognitive neuroscience, performs unexpectedly poorly on our metrics. To address this, we propose strategies for improving the model{'}s performance. Despite returning promising results, our experiments also demonstrate that much work remains to be done before distributional representations can reliably be predicted from brain data.
In this paper, we investigate the task of learning word embeddings from very sparse data in an incremental, cognitively-plausible way. We focus on the notion of {`}informativeness{'}, that is, the idea that some content is more valuable to the learning process than other. We further highlight the challenges of online learning and argue that previous systems fall short of implementing incrementality. Concretely, we incorporate informativeness in a previously proposed model of nonce learning, using it for context selection and learning rate modulation. We test our system on the task of learning new words from definitions, as well as on the task of learning new words from potentially uninformative contexts. We demonstrate that informativeness is crucial to obtaining state-of-the-art performance in a truly incremental setup.
We review the current schemes of text-image matching models and propose improvements for both training and inference. First, we empirically show limitations of two popular loss (sum and max-margin loss) widely used in training text-image embeddings and propose a trade-off: a kNN-margin loss which 1) utilizes information from hard negatives and 2) is robust to noise as all K-most hardest samples are taken into account, tolerating pseudo negatives and outliers. Second, we advocate the use of Inverted Softmax (IS) and Cross-modal Local Scaling (CSLS) during inference to mitigate the so-called hubness problem in high-dimensional embedding space, enhancing scores of all metrics by a large margin.
Several recent studies have shown that textual information of user posts and user behaviors such as liking and sharing the specific posts are useful for predicting the personality of social media users. However, less attention has been paid to the textual information derived from the user behaviors. In this paper, we investigate the effect of textual information on user behaviors for personality prediction. Our experiments on the personality prediction of Twitter users show that the textual information of user behaviors is more useful than the co-occurrence information of the user behaviors. They also show that taking user behaviors into account is crucial for predicting the personality of users who do not post frequently.
Named Entity Recognition(NER) is one of the important tasks in Natural Language Processing(NLP) and also is a subtask of Information Extraction. In this paper we present our work on NER in Telugu-English code-mixed social media data. Code-Mixing, a progeny of multilingualism is a way in which multilingual people express themselves on social media by using linguistics units from different languages within a sentence or speech context. Entity Extraction from social media data such as tweets(twitter) is in general difficult due to its informal nature, code-mixed data further complicates the problem due to its informal, unstructured and incomplete information. We present a Telugu-English code-mixed corpus with the corresponding named entity tags. The named entities used to tag data are Person({`}Per{'}), Organization({`}Org{'}) and Location({`}Loc{'}). We experimented with the machine learning models Conditional Random Fields(CRFs), Decision Trees and BiLSTMs on our corpus which resulted in a F1-score of 0.96, 0.94 and 0.95 respectively.
Named entity recognition (NER) and entity linking (EL) are two fundamentally related tasks, since in order to perform EL, first the mentions to entities have to be detected. However, most entity linking approaches disregard the mention detection part, assuming that the correct mentions have been previously detected. In this paper, we perform joint learning of NER and EL to leverage their relatedness and obtain a more robust and generalisable system. For that, we introduce a model inspired by the Stack-LSTM approach. We observe that, in fact, doing multi-task learning of NER and EL improves the performance in both tasks when comparing with models trained with individual objectives. Furthermore, we achieve results competitive with the state-of-the-art in both NER and EL.
Sequence-to-sequence models are a common approach to develop a chatbot. They can train a conversational model in an end-to-end manner. One significant drawback of such a neural network based approach is that the response generation process is a black-box, and how a specific response is generated is unclear. To tackle this problem, an interpretable response generation mechanism is desired. As a step toward this direction, we focus on dialogue-acts (DAs) that may provide insight to understand the response generation process. In particular, we propose a method to predict a DA of the next response based on the history of previous utterances and their DAs. Experiments using a Switch Board Dialogue Act corpus show that compared to the baseline considering only a single utterance, our model achieves 10.8{\%} higher F1-score and 3.0{\%} higher accuracy on DA prediction.
Fallacies like the personal attack{---}also known as the ad hominem attack{---}are introduced in debates as an easy win, even though they provide no rhetorical contribution. Although their importance in argumentation mining is acknowledged, automated mining and analysis is still lacking. We show TF-IDF approaches are insufficient to detect the ad hominem attack. Therefore we present a machine learning approach for information extraction, which has a recall of 80{\%} for a social media data source. We also demonstrate our approach with an application that uses online learning.
Chinese word segmentation (CWS) is often regarded as a character-based sequence labeling task in most current works which have achieved great success with the help of powerful neural networks. However, these works neglect an important clue: Chinese characters incorporate both semantic and phonetic meanings. In this paper, we introduce multiple character embeddings including Pinyin Romanization and Wubi Input, both of which are easily accessible and effective in depicting semantics of characters. We propose a novel shared Bi-LSTM-CRF model to fuse linguistic features efficiently by sharing the LSTM network during the training procedure. Extensive experiments on five corpora show that extra embeddings help obtain a significant improvement in labeling accuracy. Specifically, we achieve the state-of-the-art performance in AS and CityU corpora with F1 scores of 96.9 and 97.3, respectively without leveraging any external lexical resources.
In this paper, we propose a multi-hop attention for the Transformer. It refines the attention for an output symbol by integrating that of each head, and consists of two hops. The first hop attention is the scaled dot-product attention which is the same attention mechanism used in the original Transformer. The second hop attention is a combination of multi-layer perceptron (MLP) attention and head gate, which efficiently increases the complexity of the model by adding dependencies between heads. We demonstrate that the translation accuracy of the proposed multi-hop attention outperforms the baseline Transformer significantly, +0.85 BLEU point for the IWSLT-2017 German-to-English task and +2.58 BLEU point for the WMT-2017 German-to-English task. We also find that the number of parameters required for a multi-hop attention is smaller than that for stacking another self-attention layer and the proposed model converges significantly faster than the original Transformer.
Gender bias exists in natural language datasets, which neural language models tend to learn, resulting in biased text generation. In this research, we propose a debiasing approach based on the loss function modification. We introduce a new term to the loss function which attempts to equalize the probabilities of male and female words in the output. Using an array of bias evaluation metrics, we provide empirical evidence that our approach successfully mitigates gender bias in language models without increasing perplexity. In comparison to existing debiasing strategies, data augmentation, and word embedding debiasing, our method performs better in several aspects, especially in reducing gender bias in occupation words. Finally, we introduce a combination of data augmentation and our approach and show that it outperforms existing strategies in all bias evaluation metrics.
Comments on social media are very diverse, in terms of content, style and vocabulary, which make generating comments much more challenging than other existing natural language generation (NLG) tasks. Besides, since different user has different expression habits, it is necessary to take the user{'}s profile into consideration when generating comments. In this paper, we introduce the task of automatic generation of personalized comment (AGPC) for social media. Based on tens of thousands of users{'} real comments and corresponding user profiles on weibo, we propose Personalized Comment Generation Network (PCGN) for AGPC. The model utilizes user feature embedding with a gated memory and attends to user description to model personality of users. In addition, external user representation is taken into consideration during the decoding to enhance the comments generation. Experimental results show that our model can generate natural, human-like and personalized comments.
Multilingual Neural Machine Translation approaches are based on the use of task specific models and the addition of one more language can only be done by retraining the whole system. In this work, we propose a new training schedule that allows the system to scale to more languages without modification of the previous components based on joint training and language-independent encoder/decoder modules allowing for zero-shot translation. This work in progress shows close results to state-of-the-art in the WMT task.
This paper introduces STRASS: Summarization by TRAnsformation Selection and Scoring. It is an extractive text summarization method which leverages the semantic information in existing sentence embedding spaces. Our method creates an extractive summary by selecting the sentences with the closest embeddings to the document embedding. The model earns a transformation of the document embedding to minimize the similarity between the extractive summary and the ground truth summary. As the transformation is only composed of a dense layer, the training can be done on CPU, therefore, inexpensive. Moreover, inference time is short and linear according to the number of sentences. As a second contribution, we introduce the French CASS dataset, composed of judgments from the French Court of cassation and their corresponding summaries. On this dataset, our results show that our method performs similarly to the state of the art extractive methods with effective training and inferring time.
Abstract Attention based deep learning systems have been demonstrated to be the state of the art approach for aspect-level sentiment analysis, however, end-to-end deep neural networks lack flexibility as one can not easily adjust the network to fix an obvious problem, especially when more training data is not available: e.g. when it always predicts \textit{positive} when seeing the word \textit{disappointed}. Meanwhile, it is less stressed that attention mechanism is likely to {``}over-focus{''} on particular parts of a sentence, while ignoring positions which provide key information for judging the polarity. In this paper, we describe a simple yet effective approach to leverage lexicon information so that the model becomes more flexible and robust. We also explore the effect of regularizing attention vectors to allow the network to have a broader {``}focus{''} on different parts of the sentence. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
We propose a method to control the level of a sentence in a text simplification task. Text simplification is a monolingual translation task translating a complex sentence into a simpler and easier to understand the alternative. In this study, we use the grade level of the US education system as the level of the sentence. Our text simplification method succeeds in translating an input into a specific grade level by considering levels of both sentences and words. Sentence level is considered by adding the target grade level as input. By contrast, the word level is considered by adding weights to the training loss based on words that frequently appear in sentences of the desired grade level. Although existing models that consider only the sentence level may control the syntactic complexity, they tend to generate words beyond the target level. Our approach can control both the lexical and syntactic complexity and achieve an aggressive rewriting. Experiment results indicate that the proposed method improves the metrics of both BLEU and SARI.
With the growth of the social web, user-generated text data has reached unprecedented sizes. Non-canonical text normalization provides a way to exploit this as a practical source of training data for language processing systems. The state of the art in Turkish text normalization is composed of a token level pipeline of modules, heavily dependent on external linguistic resources and manually defined rules. Instead, we propose a fully automated, context-aware machine translation approach with fewer stages of processing. Experiments with various implementations of our approach show that we are able to surpass the current best-performing system by a large margin.
The rapid widespread of social media has lead to some undesirable consequences like the rapid increase of hateful content and offensive language. Religious Hate Speech, in particular, often leads to unrest and sometimes aggravates to violence against people on the basis of their religious affiliations. The richness of the Arabic morphology and the limited available resources makes this task especially challenging. The current state-of-the-art approaches to detect hate speech in Arabic rely entirely on textual (lexical and semantic) cues. Our proposed methodology contends that leveraging Community-Interaction can better help us profile hate speech content on social media. Our proposed ARHNet (Arabic Religious Hate Speech Net) model incorporates both Arabic Word Embeddings and Social Network Graphs for the detection of religious hate speech.
Analyzing polarities and sentiments inherent in political speeches and debates poses an important problem today. This experiment aims to address this issue by analyzing publicly-available Hansard transcripts of the debates conducted in the UK Parliament. Our proposed approach, which uses community-based graph information to augment hand-crafted features based on topic modeling and emotion detection on debate transcripts, currently surpasses the benchmark results on the same dataset. Such sentiment classification systems could prove to be of great use in today{'}s politically turbulent times, for public knowledge of politicians{'} stands on various relevant issues proves vital for good governance and citizenship. The experiments also demonstrate that continuous feature representations learned from graphs can improve performance on sentiment classification tasks significantly.
Current state-of-the-art speech-based user interfaces use data intense methodologies to recognize free-form speech commands. However, this is not viable for low-resource languages, which lack speech data. This restricts the usability of such interfaces to a limited number of languages. In this paper, we propose a methodology to develop a robust domain-specific speech command classification system for low-resource languages using speech data of a high-resource language. In this transfer learning-based approach, we used a Convolution Neural Network (CNN) to identify a fixed set of intents using an ASR-based character probability map. We were able to achieve significant results for Sinhala and Tamil datasets using an English based ASR, which attests the robustness of the proposed approach.
Using pre-trained word embeddings in conjunction with Deep Learning models has become the {``}de facto{''} approach in Natural Language Processing (NLP). While this usually yields satisfactory results, off-the-shelf word embeddings tend to perform poorly on texts from specialized domains such as clinical reports. Moreover, training specialized word representations from scratch is often either impossible or ineffective due to the lack of large enough in-domain data. In this work, we focus on the clinical domain for which we study embedding strategies that rely on general-domain resources only. We show that by combining off-the-shelf contextual embeddings (ELMo) with static word2vec embeddings trained on a small in-domain corpus built from the task data, we manage to reach and sometimes outperform representations learned from a large corpus in the medical domain.
Alzheimers disease is an irreversible brain disease that slowly destroys memory skills andthinking skills leading to the need for full-time care. Early detection of Alzheimer{'}s dis-ease is fundamental to slow down the progress of the disease. In this work we are developing Natural Language Processing techniques to detect linguistic characteristics of patients suffering Alzheimer{'}s Disease and related Dementias. We are proposing a neural model based on a CNN-LSTM architecture that is able to take in consideration both long language samples and hand-crafted linguistic features to distinguish between dementia affected and healthy patients. We are exploring the effects of the introduction of an attention mechanism on both our model and the actual state of the art. Our approach is able to set a new state-of-the art on the DementiaBank dataset achieving an F1 Score of 0.929 in the Dementia patients classification Supplementary material include code to run the experiments.
In this work, we conduct a study on Neural Machine Translation (NMT) for English-Indonesian (EN-ID) and Indonesian-English (ID-EN). We focus on spoken language domains, namely colloquial and speech languages. We build NMT systems using the Transformer model for both translation directions and implement domain adaptation, in which we train our pre-trained NMT systems on speech language (in-domain) data. Moreover, we conduct an evaluation on how the domain-adaptation method in our EN-ID system can result in more formal translation outputs.
Entity Disambiguation (ED) is the task of linking an ambiguous entity mention to a corresponding entry in a knowledge base. Current methods have mostly focused on unstructured text data to learn representations of entities, however, there is structured information in the knowledge base itself that should be useful to disambiguate entities. In this work, we propose a method that uses graph embeddings for integrating structured information from the knowledge base with unstructured information from text-based representations. Our experiments confirm that graph embeddings trained on a graph of hyperlinks between Wikipedia articles improve the performances of simple feed-forward neural ED model and a state-of-the-art neural ED system.
Capsule networks have been shown to demonstrate good performance on structured data in the area of visual inference. In this paper we apply and compare simple shallow capsule networks for hierarchical multi-label text classification and show that they can perform superior to other neural networks, such as CNNs and LSTMs, and non-neural network architectures such as SVMs. For our experiments, we use the established Web of Science (WOS) dataset and introduce a new real-world scenario dataset, the BlurbGenreCollection (BGC). Our results confirm the hypothesis that capsule networks are especially advantageous for rare events and structurally diverse categories, which we attribute to their ability to combine latent encoded information.
Forecasting financial volatility of a publicly-traded company from its annual reports has been previously defined as a text regression problem. Recent studies use a manually labeled lexicon to filter the annual reports by keeping sentiment words only. In order to remove the lexicon dependency without decreasing the performance, we replace bag-of-words model word features by word embedding vectors. Using word vectors increases the number of parameters. Considering the increase in number of parameters and excessive lengths of annual reports, a convolutional neural network model is proposed and transfer learning is applied. Experimental results show that the convolutional neural network model provides more accurate volatility predictions than lexicon based models.
Examining sentiments in social media poses a challenge to natural language processing because of the intricacy and variability in the dialect articulation, noisy terms in form of slang, abbreviation, acronym, emoticon, and spelling error coupled with the availability of real-time content. Moreover, most of the knowledge-based approaches for resolving slang, abbreviation, and acronym do not consider the issue of ambiguity that evolves in the usage of these noisy terms. This research work proposes an improved framework for social media feed pre-processing that leverages on the combination of integrated local knowledge bases and adapted Lesk algorithm to facilitate pre-processing of social media feeds. The results from the experimental evaluation revealed an improvement over existing methods when applied to supervised learning algorithms in the task of extracting sentiments from Nigeria-origin tweets with an accuracy of 99.17{\%}.
In this paper we perform an analytic comparison of a number of techniques used to detect fake and deceptive online reviews. We apply a number machine learning approaches found to be effective, and introduce our own approach by fine-tuning state of the art contextualised embeddings. The results we obtain show the potential of contextualised embeddings for fake review detection, and lay the groundwork for future research in this area.
Scheduled sampling is a technique for avoiding one of the known problems in sequence-to-sequence generation: exposure bias. It consists of feeding the model a mix of the teacher forced embeddings and the model predictions from the previous step in training time. The technique has been used for improving model performance with recurrent neural networks (RNN). In the Transformer model, unlike the RNN, the generation of a new word attends to the full sentence generated so far, not only to the last word, and it is not straightforward to apply the scheduled sampling technique. We propose some structural changes to allow scheduled sampling to be applied to Transformer architectures, via a two-pass decoding strategy. Experiments on two language pairs achieve performance close to a teacher-forcing baseline and show that this technique is promising for further exploration.
Popular fake news articles spread faster than mainstream articles on the same topic which renders manual fact checking inefficient. At the same time, creating tools for automatic detection is as challenging due to lack of dataset containing articles which present fake or manipulated stories as compelling facts. In this paper, we introduce manually verified corpus of compelling fake and questionable news articles on the USA politics, containing around 700 articles from Aug-Nov, 2016. We present various analyses on this corpus and finally implement classification model based on linguistic features. This work is still in progress as we plan to extend the dataset in the future and use it for our approach towards automated fake news detection.
The development of computational methods to detect abusive language in social media within variable and multilingual contexts has recently gained significant traction. The growing interest is confirmed by the large number of benchmark corpora for different languages developed in the latest years. However, abusive language behaviour is multifaceted and available datasets are featured by different topical focuses. This makes abusive language detection a domain-dependent task, and building a robust system to detect general abusive content a first challenge. Moreover, most resources are available for English, which makes detecting abusive language in low-resource languages a further challenge. We address both challenges by considering ten publicly available datasets across different domains and languages. A hybrid approach with deep learning and a multilingual lexicon to cross-domain and cross-lingual detection of abusive content is proposed and compared with other simpler models. We show that training a system on general abusive language datasets will produce a cross-domain robust system, which can be used to detect other more specific types of abusive content. We also found that using the domain-independent lexicon HurtLex is useful to transfer knowledge between domains and languages. In the cross-lingual experiment, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our jointlearning model also in out-domain scenarios.
Code-mixing is the phenomenon of mixing the vocabulary and syntax of multiple languages in the same sentence. It is an increasingly common occurrence in today{'}s multilingual society and poses a big challenge when encountered in different downstream tasks. In this paper, we present a hybrid architecture for the task of Sentiment Analysis of English-Hindi code-mixed data. Our method consists of three components, each seeking to alleviate different issues. We first generate subword level representations for the sentences using a CNN architecture. The generated representations are used as inputs to a Dual Encoder Network which consists of two different BiLSTMs - the Collective and Specific Encoder. The Collective Encoder captures the overall sentiment of the sentence, while the Specific Encoder utilizes an attention mechanism in order to focus on individual sentiment-bearing sub-words. This, combined with a Feature Network consisting of orthographic features and specially trained word embeddings, achieves state-of-the-art results - 83.54{\%} accuracy and 0.827 F1 score - on a benchmark dataset.
Existing document embedding approaches mainly focus on capturing sequences of words in documents. However, some document classification and regression tasks such as essay scoring need to consider discourse structure of documents. Although some prior approaches consider this issue and utilize discourse structure of text for document classification, these approaches are dependent on computationally expensive parsers. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised approach to capture discourse structure in terms of coherence and cohesion for document embedding that does not require any expensive parser or annotation. Extrinsic evaluation results show that the document representation obtained from our approach improves the performance of essay Organization scoring and Argument Strength scoring.
A large amount of research about multimodal inference across text and vision has been recently developed to obtain visually grounded word and sentence representations. In this paper, we use logic-based representations as unified meaning representations for texts and images and present an unsupervised multimodal logical inference system that can effectively prove entailment relations between them. We show that by combining semantic parsing and theorem proving, the system can handle semantically complex sentences for visual-textual inference.
In this work, we consider the medical concept normalization problem, i.e., the problem of mapping a health-related entity mention in a free-form text to a concept in a controlled vocabulary, usually to the standard thesaurus in the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS). This is a challenging task since medical terminology is very different when coming from health care professionals or from the general public in the form of social media texts. We approach it as a sequence learning problem with powerful neural networks such as recurrent neural networks and contextualized word representation models trained to obtain semantic representations of social media expressions. Our experimental evaluation over three different benchmarks shows that neural architectures leverage the semantic meaning of the entity mention and significantly outperform existing state of the art models.
Traditional model training for sentence generation employs cross-entropy loss as the loss function. While cross-entropy loss has convenient properties for supervised learning, it is unable to evaluate sentences as a whole, and lacks flexibility. We present the approach of training the generation model using the estimated semantic similarity between the output and reference sentences to alleviate the problems faced by the training with cross-entropy loss. We use the BERT-based scorer fine-tuned to the Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) task for semantic similarity estimation, and train the model with the estimated scores through reinforcement learning (RL). Our experiments show that reinforcement learning with semantic similarity reward improves the BLEU scores from the baseline LSTM NMT model.
In document-level sentiment classification, each document must be mapped to a fixed length vector. Document embedding models map each document to a dense, low-dimensional vector in continuous vector space. This paper proposes training document embeddings using cosine similarity instead of dot product. Experiments on the IMDB dataset show that accuracy is improved when using cosine similarity compared to using dot product, while using feature combination with Naive Bayes weighted bag of n-grams achieves a new state of the art accuracy of 97.42{\%}. Code to reproduce all experiments is available at https://github.com/tanthongtan/dv-cosine
Detection of adverse drug reactions in postapproval periods is a crucial challenge for pharmacology. Social media and electronic clinical reports are becoming increasingly popular as a source for obtaining health related information. In this work, we focus on extraction information of adverse drug reactions from various sources of biomedical textbased information, including biomedical literature and social media. We formulate the problem as a binary classification task and compare the performance of four state-of-the-art attention-based neural networks in terms of the F-measure. We show the effectiveness of these methods on four different benchmarks.
For analyzing online persuasions, one of the important goals is to semantically understand how people construct comments to persuade others. However, analyzing the semantic role of arguments for online persuasion has been less emphasized. Therefore, in this study, we propose a novel annotation scheme that captures the semantic role of arguments in a popular online persuasion forum, so-called ChangeMyView. Through this study, we have made the following contributions: (i) proposing a scheme that includes five types of elementary units (EUs) and two types of relations. (ii) annotating ChangeMyView which results in 4612 EUs and 2713 relations in 345 posts. (iii) analyzing the semantic role of persuasive arguments. Our analyses captured certain characteristic phenomena for online persuasion.
Current Japanese word segmentation methods, that use a morpheme-based approach, may produce different segmentations for the same strings. This occurs when these strings appear in different sentences. The cause is the influence of different contexts around these strings affecting the probabilistic models used in segmentation algorithms. This paper presents an alternative to the current morpheme-based scheme for Japanese word segmentation. The proposed scheme focuses on segmenting inflections as single words instead of separating the auxiliary verbs and other morphemes from the stems. Some morphological segmentation rules are presented for each type of word and these rules are implemented in a program which is properly described. The program is used to generate a segmentation of a sentence corpus, whose consistency is calculated and compared with the current morpheme-based segmentation of the same corpus. The experiments show that this method produces a much more consistent segmentation than the morpheme-based one.
Currently, researchers have paid great attention to retrieval-based dialogues in open-domain. In particular, people study the problem by investigating context-response matching for multi-turn response selection based on publicly recognized benchmark data sets. State-of-the-art methods require a response to interact with each utterance in a context from the beginning, but the interaction is performed in a shallow way. In this work, we let utterance-response interaction go deep by proposing an interaction-over-interaction network (IoI). The model performs matching by stacking multiple interaction blocks in which residual information from one time of interaction initiates the interaction process again. Thus, matching information within an utterance-response pair is extracted from the interaction of the pair in an iterative fashion, and the information flows along the chain of the blocks via representations. Evaluation results on three benchmark data sets indicate that IoI can significantly outperform state-of-the-art methods in terms of various matching metrics. Through further analysis, we also unveil how the depth of interaction affects the performance of IoI.
Document Grounded Conversations is a task to generate dialogue responses when chatting about the content of a given document. Obviously, document knowledge plays a critical role in Document Grounded Conversations, while existing dialogue models do not exploit this kind of knowledge effectively enough. In this paper, we propose a novel Transformer-based architecture for multi-turn document grounded conversations. In particular, we devise an Incremental Transformer to encode multi-turn utterances along with knowledge in related documents. Motivated by the human cognitive process, we design a two-pass decoder (Deliberation Decoder) to improve context coherence and knowledge correctness. Our empirical study on a real-world Document Grounded Dataset proves that responses generated by our model significantly outperform competitive baselines on both context coherence and knowledge relevance.
Recent research has achieved impressive results in single-turn dialogue modelling. In the multi-turn setting, however, current models are still far from satisfactory. One major challenge is the frequently occurred coreference and information omission in our daily conversation, making it hard for machines to understand the real intention. In this paper, we propose rewriting the human utterance as a pre-process to help multi-turn dialgoue modelling. Each utterance is first rewritten to recover all coreferred and omitted information. The next processing steps are then performed based on the rewritten utterance. To properly train the utterance rewriter, we collect a new dataset with human annotations and introduce a Transformer-based utterance rewriting architecture using the pointer network. We show the proposed architecture achieves remarkably good performance on the utterance rewriting task. The trained utterance rewriter can be easily integrated into online chatbots and brings general improvement over different domains.
Neural generative models have been become increasingly popular when building conversational agents. They offer flexibility, can be easily adapted to new domains, and require minimal domain engineering. A common criticism of these systems is that they seldom understand or use the available dialog history effectively. In this paper, we take an empirical approach to understanding how these models use the available dialog history by studying the sensitivity of the models to artificially introduced unnatural changes or perturbations to their context at test time. We experiment with 10 different types of perturbations on 4 multi-turn dialog datasets and find that commonly used neural dialog architectures like recurrent and transformer-based seq2seq models are rarely sensitive to most perturbations such as missing or reordering utterances, shuffling words, etc. Also, by open-sourcing our code, we believe that it will serve as a useful diagnostic tool for evaluating dialog systems in the future.
Neural models have become one of the most important approaches to dialog response generation. However, they still tend to generate the most common and generic responses in the corpus all the time. To address this problem, we designed an iterative training process and ensemble method based on boosting. We combined our method with different training and decoding paradigms as the base model, including mutual-information-based decoding and reward-augmented maximum likelihood learning. Empirical results show that our approach can significantly improve the diversity and relevance of the responses generated by all base models, backed by objective measurements and human evaluation.
Response selection plays an important role in fully automated dialogue systems. Given the dialogue context, the goal of response selection is to identify the best-matched next utterance (i.e., response) from multiple candidates. Despite the efforts of many previous useful models, this task remains challenging due to the huge semantic gap and also the large size of candidate set. To address these issues, we propose a Spatio-Temporal Matching network (STM) for response selection. In detail, soft alignment is first used to obtain the local relevance between the context and the response. And then, we construct spatio-temporal features by aggregating attention images in time dimension and make use of 3D convolution and pooling operations to extract matching information. Evaluation on two large-scale multi-turn response selection tasks has demonstrated that our proposed model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art model. Particularly, visualization analysis shows that the spatio-temporal features enables matching information in segment pairs and time sequences, and have good interpretability for multi-turn text matching.
Semantic parsing converts natural language queries into structured logical forms. The lack of training data is still one of the most serious problems in this area. In this work, we develop a semantic parsing framework with the dual learning algorithm, which enables a semantic parser to make full use of data (labeled and even unlabeled) through a dual-learning game. This game between a primal model (semantic parsing) and a dual model (logical form to query) forces them to regularize each other, and can achieve feedback signals from some prior-knowledge. By utilizing the prior-knowledge of logical form structures, we propose a novel reward signal at the surface and semantic levels which tends to generate complete and reasonable logical forms. Experimental results show that our approach achieves new state-of-the-art performance on ATIS dataset and gets competitive performance on OVERNIGHT dataset.
We investigate the capacity of mechanisms for compositional semantic parsing to describe relations between sentences and semantic representations. We prove that in order to represent certain relations, mechanisms which are syntactically projective must be able to remember an unbounded number of locations in the semantic representations, where nonprojective mechanisms need not. This is the first result of this kind, and has consequences both for grammar-based and for neural systems.
We propose an attention-based model that treats AMR parsing as sequence-to-graph transduction. Unlike most AMR parsers that rely on pre-trained aligners, external semantic resources, or data augmentation, our proposed parser is aligner-free, and it can be effectively trained with limited amounts of labeled AMR data. Our experimental results outperform all previously reported SMATCH scores, on both AMR 2.0 (76.3{\%} on LDC2017T10) and AMR 1.0 (70.2{\%} on LDC2014T12).
Structured information about entities is critical for many semantic parsing tasks. We present an approach that uses a Graph Neural Network (GNN) architecture to incorporate information about relevant entities and their relations during parsing. Combined with a decoder copy mechanism, this approach provides a conceptually simple mechanism to generate logical forms with entities. We demonstrate that this approach is competitive with the state-of-the-art across several tasks without pre-training, and outperforms existing approaches when combined with BERT pre-training.
Vector representations of sentences, trained on massive text corpora, are widely used as generic sentence embeddings across a variety of NLP problems. The learned representations are generally assumed to be continuous and real-valued, giving rise to a large memory footprint and slow retrieval speed, which hinders their applicability to low-resource (memory and computation) platforms, such as mobile devices. In this paper, we propose four different strategies to transform continuous and generic sentence embeddings into a binarized form, while preserving their rich semantic information. The introduced methods are evaluated across a wide range of downstream tasks, where the binarized sentence embeddings are demonstrated to degrade performance by only about 2{\%} relative to their continuous counterparts, while reducing the storage requirement by over 98{\%}. Moreover, with the learned binary representations, the semantic relatedness of two sentences can be evaluated by simply calculating their Hamming distance, which is more computational efficient compared with the inner product operation between continuous embeddings. Detailed analysis and case study further validate the effectiveness of proposed methods.
Classical non-neural dependency parsers put considerable effort on the design of feature functions. Especially, they benefit from information coming from structural features, such as features drawn from neighboring tokens in the dependency tree. In contrast, their BiLSTM-based successors achieve state-of-the-art performance without explicit information about the structural context. In this paper we aim to answer the question: How much structural context are the BiLSTM representations able to capture implicitly? We show that features drawn from partial subtrees become redundant when the BiLSTMs are used. We provide a deep insight into information flow in transition- and graph-based neural architectures to demonstrate where the implicit information comes from when the parsers make their decisions. Finally, with model ablations we demonstrate that the structural context is not only present in the models, but it significantly influences their performance.
We propose a new domain adaptation method for Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) parsing, based on the idea of automatic generation of CCG corpora exploiting cheaper resources of dependency trees. Our solution is conceptually simple, and not relying on a specific parser architecture, making it applicable to the current best-performing parsers. We conduct extensive parsing experiments with detailed discussion; on top of existing benchmark datasets on (1) biomedical texts and (2) question sentences, we create experimental datasets of (3) speech conversation and (4) math problems. When applied to the proposed method, an off-the-shelf CCG parser shows significant performance gains, improving from 90.7{\%} to 96.6{\%} on speech conversation, and from 88.5{\%} to 96.8{\%} on math problems.
We study a variant of domain adaptation for named-entity recognition where multiple, heterogeneously tagged training sets are available. Furthermore, the test tag-set is not identical to any individual training tag-set. Yet, the relations between all tags are provided in a tag hierarchy, covering the test tags as a combination of training tags. This setting occurs when various datasets are created using different annotation schemes. This is also the case of extending a tag-set with a new tag by annotating only the new tag in a new dataset. We propose to use the given tag hierarchy to jointly learn a neural network that shares its tagging layer among all tag-sets. We compare this model to combining independent models and to a model based on the multitasking approach. Our experiments show the benefit of the tag-hierarchy model, especially when facing non-trivial consolidation of tag-sets.
In cross-lingual transfer, NLP models over one or more source languages are applied to a low-resource target language. While most prior work has used a single source model or a few carefully selected models, here we consider a {``}massive{''} setting with many such models. This setting raises the problem of poor transfer, particularly from distant languages. We propose two techniques for modulating the transfer, suitable for zero-shot or few-shot learning, respectively. Evaluating on named entity recognition, we show that our techniques are much more effective than strong baselines, including standard ensembling, and our unsupervised method rivals oracle selection of the single best individual model.
Word embeddings are widely used on a variety of tasks and can substantially improve the performance. However, their quality is not consistent throughout the vocabulary due to the long-tail distribution of word frequency. Without sufficient contexts, rare word embeddings are usually less reliable than those of common words. However, current models typically trust all word embeddings equally regardless of their reliability and thus may introduce noise and hurt the performance. Since names often contain rare and uncommon words, this problem is particularly critical for name tagging. In this paper, we propose a novel reliability-aware name tagging model to tackle this issue. We design a set of word frequency-based reliability signals to indicate the quality of each word embedding. Guided by the reliability signals, the model is able to dynamically select and compose features such as word embedding and character-level representation using gating mechanisms. For example, if an input word is rare, the model relies less on its word embedding and assigns higher weights to its character and contextual features. Experiments on OntoNotes 5.0 show that our model outperforms the baseline model by 2.7{\%} absolute gain in F-score. In cross-genre experiments on five genres in OntoNotes, our model improves the performance for most genre pairs and obtains up to 5{\%} absolute F-score gain.
Unsupervised neural machine translation (NMT) has attracted a lot of attention recently. While state-of-the-art methods for unsupervised translation usually perform well between similar languages (e.g., English-German translation), they perform poorly between distant languages, because unsupervised alignment does not work well for distant languages. In this work, we introduce unsupervised pivot translation for distant languages, which translates a language to a distant language through multiple hops, and the unsupervised translation on each hop is relatively easier than the original direct translation. We propose a learning to route (LTR) method to choose the translation path between the source and target languages. LTR is trained on language pairs whose best translation path is available and is applied on the unseen language pairs for path selection. Experiments on 20 languages and 294 distant language pairs demonstrate the advantages of the unsupervised pivot translation for distant languages, as well as the effectiveness of the proposed LTR for path selection. Specifically, in the best case, LTR achieves an improvement of 5.58 BLEU points over the conventional direct unsupervised method.
Recent work on bilingual lexicon induction (BLI) has frequently depended either on aligned bilingual lexicons or on distribution matching, often with an assumption about the isometry of the two spaces. We propose a technique to quantitatively estimate this assumption of the isometry between two embedding spaces and empirically show that this assumption weakens as the languages in question become increasingly etymologically distant. We then propose Bilingual Lexicon Induction with Semi-Supervision (BLISS) {---} a semi-supervised approach that relaxes the isometric assumption while leveraging both limited aligned bilingual lexicons and a larger set of unaligned word embeddings, as well as a novel hubness filtering technique. Our proposed method obtains state of the art results on 15 of 18 language pairs on the MUSE dataset, and does particularly well when the embedding spaces don{'}t appear to be isometric. In addition, we also show that adding supervision stabilizes the learning procedure, and is effective even with minimal supervision.
A regularization technique based on adversarial perturbation, which was initially developed in the field of image processing, has been successfully applied to text classification tasks and has yielded attractive improvements. We aim to further leverage this promising methodology into more sophisticated and critical neural models in the natural language processing field, i.e., neural machine translation (NMT) models. However, it is not trivial to apply this methodology to such models. Thus, this paper investigates the effectiveness of several possible configurations of applying the adversarial perturbation and reveals that the adversarial regularization technique can significantly and consistently improve the performance of widely used NMT models, such as LSTM-based and Transformer-based models.
It has been shown that the performance of neural machine translation (NMT) drops starkly in low-resource conditions, underperforming phrase-based statistical machine translation (PBSMT) and requiring large amounts of auxiliary data to achieve competitive results. In this paper, we re-assess the validity of these results, arguing that they are the result of lack of system adaptation to low-resource settings. We discuss some pitfalls to be aware of when training low-resource NMT systems, and recent techniques that have shown to be especially helpful in low-resource settings, resulting in a set of best practices for low-resource NMT. In our experiments on German{--}English with different amounts of IWSLT14 training data, we show that, without the use of any auxiliary monolingual or multilingual data, an optimized NMT system can outperform PBSMT with far less data than previously claimed. We also apply these techniques to a low-resource Korean{--}English dataset, surpassing previously reported results by 4 BLEU.
We investigate adaptive ensemble weighting for Neural Machine Translation, addressing the case of improving performance on a new and potentially unknown domain without sacrificing performance on the original domain. We adapt sequentially across two Spanish-English and three English-German tasks, comparing unregularized fine-tuning, L2 and Elastic Weight Consolidation. We then report a novel scheme for adaptive NMT ensemble decoding by extending Bayesian Interpolation with source information, and report strong improvements across test domains without access to the domain label.
We study relation extraction for knowledge base (KB) enrichment. Specifically, we aim to extract entities and their relationships from sentences in the form of triples and map the elements of the extracted triples to an existing KB in an end-to-end manner. Previous studies focus on the extraction itself and rely on Named Entity Disambiguation (NED) to map triples into the KB space. This way, NED errors may cause extraction errors that affect the overall precision and recall.To address this problem, we propose an end-to-end relation extraction model for KB enrichment based on a neural encoder-decoder model. We collect high-quality training data by distant supervision with co-reference resolution and paraphrase detection. We propose an n-gram based attention model that captures multi-word entity names in a sentence. Our model employs jointly learned word and entity embeddings to support named entity disambiguation. Finally, our model uses a modified beam search and a triple classifier to help generate high-quality triples. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines by 15.51{\%} and 8.38{\%} in terms of F1 score on two real-world datasets.
Dependency trees convey rich structural information that is proven useful for extracting relations among entities in text. However, how to effectively make use of relevant information while ignoring irrelevant information from the dependency trees remains a challenging research question. Existing approaches employing rule based hard-pruning strategies for selecting relevant partial dependency structures may not always yield optimal results. In this work, we propose Attention Guided Graph Convolutional Networks (AGGCNs), a novel model which directly takes full dependency trees as inputs. Our model can be understood as a soft-pruning approach that automatically learns how to selectively attend to the relevant sub-structures useful for the relation extraction task. Extensive results on various tasks including cross-sentence n-ary relation extraction and large-scale sentence-level relation extraction show that our model is able to better leverage the structural information of the full dependency trees, giving significantly better results than previous approaches.
Spatial aggregation refers to merging of documents created at the same spatial location. We show that by spatial aggregation of a large collection of documents and applying a traditional topic discovery algorithm on the aggregated data we can efficiently discover spatially distinct topics. By looking at topic discovery through matrix factorization lenses we show that spatial aggregation allows low rank approximation of the original document-word matrix, in which spatially distinct topics are preserved and non-spatial topics are aggregated into a single topic. Our experiments on synthetic data confirm this observation. Our experiments on 4.7 million tweets collected during the Sandy Hurricane in 2012 show that spatial and temporal aggregation allows rapid discovery of relevant spatial and temporal topics during that period. Our work indicates that different forms of document aggregation might be effective in rapid discovery of various types of distinct topics from large collections of documents.
Link prediction is critical for the application of incomplete knowledge graph (KG) in the downstream tasks. As a family of effective approaches for link predictions, embedding methods try to learn low-rank representations for both entities and relations such that the bilinear form defined therein is a well-behaved scoring function. Despite of their successful performances, existing bilinear forms overlook the modeling of relation compositions, resulting in lacks of interpretability for reasoning on KG. To fulfill this gap, we propose a new model called DihEdral, named after dihedral symmetry group. This new model learns knowledge graph embeddings that can capture relation compositions by nature. Furthermore, our approach models the relation embeddings parametrized by discrete values, thereby decrease the solution space drastically. Our experiments show that DihEdral is able to capture all desired properties such as (skew-) symmetry, inversion and (non-) Abelian composition, and outperforms existing bilinear form based approach and is comparable to or better than deep learning models such as ConvE.
Pretrained contextual and non-contextual subword embeddings have become available in over 250 languages, allowing massively multilingual NLP. However, while there is no dearth of pretrained embeddings, the distinct lack of systematic evaluations makes it difficult for practitioners to choose between them. In this work, we conduct an extensive evaluation comparing non-contextual subword embeddings, namely FastText and BPEmb, and a contextual representation method, namely BERT, on multilingual named entity recognition and part-of-speech tagging. We find that overall, a combination of BERT, BPEmb, and character representations works best across languages and tasks. A more detailed analysis reveals different strengths and weaknesses: Multilingual BERT performs well in medium- to high-resource languages, but is outperformed by non-contextual subword embeddings in a low-resource setting.
Today, the dominant paradigm for training neural networks involves minimizing task loss on a large dataset. Using world knowledge to inform a model, and yet retain the ability to perform end-to-end training remains an open question. In this paper, we present a novel framework for introducing declarative knowledge to neural network architectures in order to guide training and prediction. Our framework systematically compiles logical statements into computation graphs that augment a neural network without extra learnable parameters or manual redesign. We evaluate our modeling strategy on three tasks: machine comprehension, natural language inference, and text chunking. Our experiments show that knowledge-augmented networks can strongly improve over baselines, especially in low-data regimes.
Not all types of supervision signals are created equal: Different types of feedback have different costs and effects on learning. We show how self-regulation strategies that decide when to ask for which kind of feedback from a teacher (or from oneself) can be cast as a learning-to-learn problem leading to improved cost-aware sequence-to-sequence learning. In experiments on interactive neural machine translation, we find that the self-regulator discovers an $\epsilon$-greedy strategy for the optimal cost-quality trade-off by mixing different feedback types including corrections, error markups, and self-supervision. Furthermore, we demonstrate its robustness under domain shift and identify it as a promising alternative to active learning.
In recent NLP research, a topic of interest is universal sentence encoding, sentence representations that can be used in any supervised task. At the word sequence level, fully attention-based models suffer from two problems: a quadratic increase in memory consumption with respect to the sentence length and an inability to capture and use syntactic information. Recursive neural nets can extract very good syntactic information by traversing a tree structure. To this end, we propose Tree Transformer, a model that captures phrase level syntax for constituency trees as well as word-level dependencies for dependency trees by doing recursive traversal only with attention. Evaluation of this model on four tasks gets noteworthy results compared to the standard transformer and LSTM-based models as well as tree-structured LSTMs. Ablation studies to find whether positional information is inherently encoded in the trees and which type of attention is suitable for doing the recursive traversal are provided.
Neural parsers obtain state-of-the-art results on benchmark treebanks for constituency parsing{---}but to what degree do they generalize to other domains? We present three results about the generalization of neural parsers in a zero-shot setting: training on trees from one corpus and evaluating on out-of-domain corpora. First, neural and non-neural parsers generalize comparably to new domains. Second, incorporating pre-trained encoder representations into neural parsers substantially improves their performance across all domains, but does not give a larger relative improvement for out-of-domain treebanks. Finally, despite the rich input representations they learn, neural parsers still benefit from structured output prediction of output trees, yielding higher exact match accuracy and stronger generalization both to larger text spans and to out-of-domain corpora. We analyze generalization on English and Chinese corpora, and in the process obtain state-of-the-art parsing results for the Brown, Genia, and English Web treebanks.
We propose a novel self-attention mechanism that can learn its optimal attention span. This allows us to extend significantly the maximum context size used in Transformer, while maintaining control over their memory footprint and computational time. We show the effectiveness of our approach on the task of character level language modeling, where we achieve state-of-the-art performances on text8 and enwiki8 by using a maximum context of 8k characters.
Personalized news recommendation is important to help users find their interested news and improve reading experience. A key problem in news recommendation is learning accurate user representations to capture their interests. Users usually have both long-term preferences and short-term interests. However, existing news recommendation methods usually learn single representations of users, which may be insufficient. In this paper, we propose a neural news recommendation approach which can learn both long- and short-term user representations. The core of our approach is a news encoder and a user encoder. In the news encoder, we learn representations of news from their titles and topic categories, and use attention network to select important words. In the user encoder, we propose to learn long-term user representations from the embeddings of their IDs.In addition, we propose to learn short-term user representations from their recently browsed news via GRU network. Besides, we propose two methods to combine long-term and short-term user representations. The first one is using the long-term user representation to initialize the hidden state of the GRU network in short-term user representation. The second one is concatenating both long- and short-term user representations as a unified user vector. Extensive experiments on a real-world dataset show our approach can effectively improve the performance of neural news recommendation.
In this paper, we automatically create sentiment dictionaries for predicting financial outcomes. We compare three approaches: (i) manual adaptation of the domain-general dictionary H4N, (ii) automatic adaptation of H4N and (iii) a combination consisting of first manual, then automatic adaptation. In our experiments, we demonstrate that the automatically adapted sentiment dictionary outperforms the previous state of the art in predicting the financial outcomes excess return and volatility. In particular, automatic adaptation performs better than manual adaptation. In our analysis, we find that annotation based on an expert{'}s a priori belief about a word{'}s meaning can be incorrect {--} annotation should be performed based on the word{'}s contexts in the target domain instead.
We propose two novel manipulation strategies for increasing and decreasing the difficulty of C-tests automatically. This is a crucial step towards generating learner-adaptive exercises for self-directed language learning and preparing language assessment tests. To reach the desired difficulty level, we manipulate the size and the distribution of gaps based on absolute and relative gap difficulty predictions. We evaluate our approach in corpus-based experiments and in a user study with 60 participants. We find that both strategies are able to generate C-tests with the desired difficulty level.
Text classification aims at mapping documents into a set of predefined categories. Supervised machine learning models have shown great success in this area but they require a large number of labeled documents to reach adequate accuracy. This is particularly true when the number of target categories is in the tens or the hundreds. In this work, we explore an unsupervised approach to classify documents into categories simply described by a label. The proposed method is inspired by the way a human proceeds in this situation: It draws on textual similarity between the most relevant words in each document and a dictionary of keywords for each category reflecting its semantics and lexical field. The novelty of our method hinges on the enrichment of the category labels through a combination of human expertise and language models, both generic and domain specific. Our experiments on 5 standard corpora show that the proposed method increases F1-score over relying solely on human expertise and can also be on par with simple supervised approaches. It thus provides a practical alternative to situations where low cost text categorization is needed, as we illustrate with our application to operational risk incidents classification.
Clinical letters are infamously impenetrable for the lay patient. This work uses neural text simplification methods to automatically improve the understandability of clinical letters for patients. We take existing neural text simplification software and augment it with a new phrase table that links complex medical terminology to simpler vocabulary by mining SNOMED-CT. In an evaluation task using crowdsourcing, we show that the results of our new system are ranked easier to understand (average rank 1.93) than using the original system (2.34) without our phrase table. We also show improvement against baselines including the original text (2.79) and using the phrase table without the neural text simplification software (2.94). Our methods can easily be transferred outside of the clinical domain by using domain-appropriate resources to provide effective neural text simplification for any domain without the need for costly annotation.
Predicting financial risk is an essential task in financial market. Prior research has shown that textual information in a firm{'}s financial statement can be used to predict its stock{'}s risk level. Nowadays, firm CEOs communicate information not only verbally through press releases and financial reports, but also nonverbally through investor meetings and earnings conference calls. There are anecdotal evidences that CEO{'}s vocal features, such as emotions and voice tones, can reveal the firm{'}s performance. However, how vocal features can be used to predict risk levels, and to what extent, is still unknown. To fill the gap, we obtain earnings call audio recordings and textual transcripts for S{\&}P 500 companies in recent years. We propose a multimodal deep regression model (MDRM) that jointly model CEO{'}s verbal (from text) and vocal (from audio) information in a conference call. Empirical results show that our model that jointly considers verbal and vocal features achieves significant and substantial prediction error reduction. We also discuss several interesting findings and the implications to financial markets. The processed earnings conference calls data (text and audio) are released for readers who are interested in reproducing the results or designing trading strategy.
Motivated by infamous cheating scandals in the media industry, the wine industry, and political campaigns, we address the problem of detecting concealed information in technical settings. In this work, we explore acoustic-prosodic and linguistic indicators of information concealment by collecting a unique corpus of professionals practicing for oral exams while concealing information. We reveal subtle signs of concealing information in speech and text, compare and contrast them with those in deception detection literature, uncovering the link between concealing information and deception. We then present a series of experiments that automatically detect concealed information from text and speech. We compare the use of acoustic-prosodic, linguistic, and individual feature sets, using different machine learning models. Finally, we present a multi-task learning framework with acoustic, linguistic, and individual features, that outperforms human performance by over 15{\%}.
The information revolution brought with it information pollution. Information retrieval and extraction help us cope with abundant information from diverse sources. But some sources are of anonymous authorship, and some are of uncertain accuracy, so how can we determine what we should actually believe? Not all information sources are equally trustworthy, and simply accepting the majority view is often wrong. This paper develops a general framework for estimating the trustworthiness of information sources in an environment where multiple sources provide claims and supporting evidence, and each claim can potentially be produced by multiple sources. We consider two settings: one in which information sources directly assert claims, and a more realistic and challenging one, in which claims are inferred from evidence provided by sources, via (possibly noisy) NLP techniques. Our key contribution is to develop a family of probabilistic models that jointly estimate the trustworthiness of sources, and the credibility of claims they assert. This is done while accounting for the (possibly noisy) NLP needed to infer claims from evidence supplied by sources. We evaluate our framework on several datasets, showing strong results and significant improvement over baselines.
This paper tackles the problem of disentangling the latent representations of style and content in language models. We propose a simple yet effective approach, which incorporates auxiliary multi-task and adversarial objectives, for style prediction and bag-of-words prediction, respectively. We show, both qualitatively and quantitatively, that the style and content are indeed disentangled in the latent space. This disentangled latent representation learning can be applied to style transfer on non-parallel corpora. We achieve high performance in terms of transfer accuracy, content preservation, and language fluency, in comparison to various previous approaches.
Automatic grammatical error correction (GEC) research has made remarkable progress in the past decade. However, all existing approaches to GEC correct errors by considering a single sentence alone and ignoring crucial cross-sentence context. Some errors can only be corrected reliably using cross-sentence context and models can also benefit from the additional contextual information in correcting other errors. In this paper, we address this serious limitation of existing approaches and improve strong neural encoder-decoder models by appropriately modeling wider contexts. We employ an auxiliary encoder that encodes previous sentences and incorporate the encoding in the decoder via attention and gating mechanisms. Our approach results in statistically significant improvements in overall GEC performance over strong baselines across multiple test sets. Analysis of our cross-sentence GEC model on a synthetic dataset shows high performance in verb tense corrections that require cross-sentence context.
Given the overwhelming number of emails, an effective subject line becomes essential to better inform the recipient of the email{'}s content. In this paper, we propose and study the task of \textit{email subject line generation}: automatically generating an email subject line from the email body. We create the first dataset for this task and find that email subject line generation favor extremely abstractive summary which differentiates it from news headline generation or news single document summarization. We then develop a novel deep learning method and compare it to several baselines as well as recent state-of-the-art text summarization systems. We also investigate the efficacy of several automatic metrics based on correlations with human judgments and propose a new automatic evaluation metric. Our system outperforms competitive baselines given both automatic and human evaluations. To our knowledge, this is the first work to tackle the problem of effective email subject line generation.
State-of-the-art models of lexical semantic change detection suffer from noise stemming from vector space alignment. We have empirically tested the Temporal Referencing method for lexical semantic change and show that, by avoiding alignment, it is less affected by this noise. We show that, trained on a diachronic corpus, the skip-gram with negative sampling architecture with temporal referencing outperforms alignment models on a synthetic task as well as a manual testset. We introduce a principled way to simulate lexical semantic change and systematically control for possible biases.
In this paper, we propose a neural network-based approach, namely Adversarial Attention Network, to the task of multi-dimensional emotion regression, which automatically rates multiple emotion dimension scores for an input text. Especially, to determine which words are valuable for a particular emotion dimension, an attention layer is trained to weight the words in an input sequence. Furthermore, adversarial training is employed between two attention layers to learn better word weights via a discriminator. In particular, a shared attention layer is incorporated to learn public word weights between two emotion dimensions. Empirical evaluation on the EMOBANK corpus shows that our approach achieves notable improvements in r-values on both EMOBANK Reader{'}s and Writer{'}s multi-dimensional emotion regression tasks in all domains over the state-of-the-art baselines.
We propose a general strategy named {`}divide, conquer and combine{'} for multimodal fusion. Instead of directly fusing features at holistic level, we conduct fusion hierarchically so that both local and global interactions are considered for a comprehensive interpretation of multimodal embeddings. In the {`}divide{'} and {`}conquer{'} stages, we conduct local fusion by exploring the interaction of a portion of the aligned feature vectors across various modalities lying within a sliding window, which ensures that each part of multimodal embeddings are explored sufficiently. On its basis, global fusion is conducted in the {`}combine{'} stage to explore the interconnection across local interactions, via an Attentive Bi-directional Skip-connected LSTM that directly connects distant local interactions and integrates two levels of attention mechanism. In this way, local interactions can exchange information sufficiently and thus obtain an overall view of multimodal information. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on multimodal affective computing with higher efficiency.
Every fiscal quarter, companies hold earnings calls in which company executives respond to questions from analysts. After these calls, analysts often change their price target recommendations, which are used in equity re- search reports to help investors make deci- sions. In this paper, we examine analysts{'} decision making behavior as it pertains to the language content of earnings calls. We identify a set of 20 pragmatic features of analysts{'} questions which we correlate with analysts{'} pre-call investor recommendations. We also analyze the degree to which semantic and pragmatic features from an earnings call complement market data in predicting analysts{'} post-call changes in price targets. Our results show that earnings calls are moderately predictive of analysts{'} decisions even though these decisions are influenced by a number of other factors including private communication with company executives and market conditions. A breakdown of model errors indicates disparate performance on calls from different market sectors.
Aspect-based sentiment analysis produces a list of aspect terms and their corresponding sentiments for a natural language sentence. This task is usually done in a pipeline manner, with aspect term extraction performed first, followed by sentiment predictions toward the extracted aspect terms. While easier to develop, such an approach does not fully exploit joint information from the two subtasks and does not use all available sources of training information that might be helpful, such as document-level labeled sentiment corpus. In this paper, we propose an interactive multi-task learning network (IMN) which is able to jointly learn multiple related tasks simultaneously at both the token level as well as the document level. Unlike conventional multi-task learning methods that rely on learning common features for the different tasks, IMN introduces a message passing architecture where information is iteratively passed to different tasks through a shared set of latent variables. Experimental results demonstrate superior performance of the proposed method against multiple baselines on three benchmark datasets.
This work presents an approach decomposing propositions into four functional components and identify the patterns linking those components to determine argument structure. The entities addressed by a proposition are target concepts and the features selected to make a point about the target concepts are aspects. A line of reasoning is followed by providing evidence for the points made about the target concepts via aspects. Opinions on target concepts and opinions on aspects are used to support or attack the ideas expressed by target concepts and aspects. The relations between aspects, target concepts, opinions on target concepts and aspects are used to infer the argument relations. Propositions are connected iteratively to form a graph structure. The approach is generic in that it is not tuned for a specific corpus and evaluated on three different corpora from the literature: AAEC, AMT, US2016G1tv and achieved an F score of 0.79, 0.77 and 0.64, respectively.
Emotion recognition in conversations is a challenging task that has recently gained popularity due to its potential applications. Until now, however, a large-scale multimodal multi-party emotional conversational database containing more than two speakers per dialogue was missing. Thus, we propose the Multimodal EmotionLines Dataset (MELD), an extension and enhancement of EmotionLines. MELD contains about 13,000 utterances from 1,433 dialogues from the TV-series Friends. Each utterance is annotated with emotion and sentiment labels, and encompasses audio, visual and textual modalities. We propose several strong multimodal baselines and show the importance of contextual and multimodal information for emotion recognition in conversations. The full dataset is available for use at http://affective-meld.github.io.
Open-domain targeted sentiment analysis aims to detect opinion targets along with their sentiment polarities from a sentence. Prior work typically formulates this task as a sequence tagging problem. However, such formulation suffers from problems such as huge search space and sentiment inconsistency. To address these problems, we propose a span-based extract-then-classify framework, where multiple opinion targets are directly extracted from the sentence under the supervision of target span boundaries, and corresponding polarities are then classified using their span representations. We further investigate three approaches under this framework, namely the pipeline, joint, and collapsed models. Experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our approach consistently outperforms the sequence tagging baseline. Moreover, we find that the pipeline model achieves the best performance compared with the other two models.
In aspect-level sentiment classification (ASC), it is prevalent to equip dominant neural models with attention mechanisms, for the sake of acquiring the importance of each context word on the given aspect. However, such a mechanism tends to excessively focus on a few frequent words with sentiment polarities, while ignoring infrequent ones. In this paper, we propose a progressive self-supervised attention learning approach for neural ASC models, which automatically mines useful attention supervision information from a training corpus to refine attention mechanisms. Specifically, we iteratively conduct sentiment predictions on all training instances. Particularly, at each iteration, the context word with the maximum attention weight is extracted as the one with active/misleading influence on the correct/incorrect prediction of every instance, and then the word itself is masked for subsequent iterations. Finally, we augment the conventional training objective with a regularization term, which enables ASC models to continue equally focusing on the extracted active context words while decreasing weights of those misleading ones. Experimental results on multiple datasets show that our proposed approach yields better attention mechanisms, leading to substantial improvements over the two state-of-the-art neural ASC models. Source code and trained models are available at https://github.com/DeepLearnXMU/PSSAttention.
We experiment with two recent contextualized word embedding methods (ELMo and BERT) in the context of open-domain argument search. For the first time, we show how to leverage the power of contextualized word embeddings to classify and cluster topic-dependent arguments, achieving impressive results on both tasks and across multiple datasets. For argument classification, we improve the state-of-the-art for the UKP Sentential Argument Mining Corpus by 20.8 percentage points and for the IBM Debater - Evidence Sentences dataset by 7.4 percentage points. For the understudied task of argument clustering, we propose a pre-training step which improves by 7.8 percentage points over strong baselines on a novel dataset, and by 12.3 percentage points for the Argument Facet Similarity (AFS) Corpus.
Many NLP learning tasks can be decomposed into several distinct sub-tasks, each associated with a partial label. In this paper we focus on a popular class of learning problems, sequence prediction applied to several sentiment analysis tasks, and suggest a modular learning approach in which different sub-tasks are learned using separate functional modules, combined to perform the final task while sharing information. Our experiments show this approach helps constrain the learning process and can alleviate some of the supervision efforts.
This paper focuses on two related subtasks of aspect-based sentiment analysis, namely aspect term extraction and aspect sentiment classification, which we call aspect term-polarity co-extraction. The former task is to extract aspects of a product or service from an opinion document, and the latter is to identify the polarity expressed in the document about these extracted aspects. Most existing algorithms address them as two separate tasks and solve them one by one, or only perform one task, which can be complicated for real applications. In this paper, we treat these two tasks as two sequence labeling problems and propose a novel Dual crOss-sharEd RNN framework (DOER) to generate all aspect term-polarity pairs of the input sentence simultaneously. Specifically, DOER involves a dual recurrent neural network to extract the respective representation of each task, and a cross-shared unit to consider the relationship between them. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on three benchmark datasets.
Existing argumentation datasets have succeeded in allowing researchers to develop computational methods for analyzing the content, structure and linguistic features of argumentative text. They have been much less successful in fostering studies of the effect of {``}user{''} traits {---} characteristics and beliefs of the participants {---} on the debate/argument outcome as this type of user information is generally not available. This paper presents a dataset of 78,376 debates generated over a 10-year period along with surprisingly comprehensive participant profiles. We also complete an example study using the dataset to analyze the effect of selected user traits on the debate outcome in comparison to the linguistic features typically employed in studies of this kind.
In the literature, most of the previous studies on English implicit discourse relation recognition only use sentence-level representations, which cannot provide enough semantic information in Chinese due to its unique paratactic characteristics. In this paper, we propose a topic tensor network to recognize Chinese implicit discourse relations with both sentence-level and topic-level representations. In particular, besides encoding arguments (discourse units) using a gated convolutional network to obtain sentence-level representations, we train a simplified topic model to infer the latent topic-level representations. Moreover, we feed the two pairs of representations to two factored tensor networks, respectively, to capture both the sentence-level interactions and topic-level relevance using multi-slice tensors. Experimentation on CDTB, a Chinese discourse corpus, shows that our proposed model significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines in both micro and macro F1-scores.
Pragmatic reasoning allows humans to go beyond the literal meaning when interpret- ing language in context. Previous work has shown that such reasoning can improve the performance of already-trained language understanding systems. Here, we explore whether pragmatic reasoning during training can improve the quality of learned meanings. Our experiments on reference game data show that end-to-end pragmatic training produces more accurate utterance interpretation models, especially when data is sparse and language is complex.
We address the task of assessing discourse coherence, an aspect of text quality that is essential for many NLP tasks, such as summarization and language assessment. We propose a hierarchical neural network trained in a multi-task fashion that learns to predict a document-level coherence score (at the network{'}s top layers) along with word-level grammatical roles (at the bottom layers), taking advantage of inductive transfer between the two tasks. We assess the extent to which our framework generalizes to different domains and prediction tasks, and demonstrate its effectiveness not only on standard binary evaluation coherence tasks, but also on real-world tasks involving the prediction of varying degrees of coherence, achieving a new state of the art.
This paper investigates the advantages and limits of data programming for the task of learning discourse structure. The data programming paradigm implemented in the Snorkel framework allows a user to label training data using expert-composed heuristics, which are then transformed via the {``}generative step{''} into probability distributions of the class labels given the training candidates. These results are later generalized using a discriminative model. Snorkel{'}s attractive promise to create a large amount of annotated data from a smaller set of training data by unifying the output of a set of heuristics has yet to be used for computationally difficult tasks, such as that of discourse attachment, in which one must decide where a given discourse unit attaches to other units in a text in order to form a coherent discourse structure. Although approaching this problem using Snorkel requires significant modifications to the structure of the heuristics, we show that weak supervision methods can be more than competitive with classical supervised learning approaches to the attachment problem.
Discourse structure is integral to understanding a text and is helpful in many NLP tasks. Learning latent representations of discourse is an attractive alternative to acquiring expensive labeled discourse data. Liu and Lapata (2018) propose a structured attention mechanism for text classification that derives a tree over a text, akin to an RST discourse tree. We examine this model in detail, and evaluate on additional discourse-relevant tasks and datasets, in order to assess whether the structured attention improves performance on the end task and whether it captures a text{'}s discourse structure. We find the learned latent trees have little to no structure and instead focus on lexical cues; even after obtaining more structured trees with proposed model modifications, the trees are still far from capturing discourse structure when compared to discourse dependency trees from an existing discourse parser. Finally, ablation studies show the structured attention provides little benefit, sometimes even hurting performance.
Zero-shot learning in Language {\&} Vision is the task of correctly labelling (or naming) objects of novel categories. Another strand of work in L{\&}V aims at pragmatically informative rather than {``}correct{''} object descriptions, e.g. in reference games. We combine these lines of research and model zero-shot reference games, where a speaker needs to successfully refer to a novel object in an image. Inspired by models of {``}rational speech acts{''}, we extend a neural generator to become a pragmatic speaker reasoning about uncertain object categories. As a result of this reasoning, the generator produces fewer nouns and names of distractor categories as compared to a literal speaker. We show that this conversational strategy for dealing with novel objects often improves communicative success, in terms of resolution accuracy of an automatic listener.
Recent neural network models have significantly advanced the task of coreference resolution. However, current neural coreference models are usually trained with heuristic loss functions that are computed over a sequence of local decisions. In this paper, we introduce an end-to-end reinforcement learning based coreference resolution model to directly optimize coreference evaluation metrics. Specifically, we modify the state-of-the-art higher-order mention ranking approach in Lee et al. (2018) to a reinforced policy gradient model by incorporating the reward associated with a sequence of coreference linking actions. Furthermore, we introduce maximum entropy regularization for adequate exploration to prevent the model from prematurely converging to a bad local optimum. Our proposed model achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the English OntoNotes v5.0 benchmark.
Discourse relation identification has been an active area of research for many years, and the challenge of identifying implicit relations remains largely an unsolved task, especially in the context of an open-domain dialogue system. Previous work primarily relies on a corpora of formal text which is inherently non-dialogic, i.e., news and journals. This data however is not suitable to handle the nuances of informal dialogue nor is it capable of navigating the plethora of valid topics present in open-domain dialogue. In this paper, we designed a novel discourse relation identification pipeline specifically tuned for open-domain dialogue systems. We firstly propose a method to automatically extract the implicit discourse relation argument pairs and labels from a dataset of dialogic turns, resulting in a novel corpus of discourse relation pairs; the first of its kind to attempt to identify the discourse relations connecting the dialogic turns in open-domain discourse. Moreover, we have taken the first steps to leverage the dialogue features unique to our task to further improve the identification of such relations by performing feature ablation and incorporating dialogue features to enhance the state-of-the-art model.
A key challenge in coreference resolution is to capture properties of entity clusters, and use those in the resolution process. Here we provide a simple and effective approach for achieving this, via an {``}Entity Equalization{''} mechanism. The Equalization approach represents each mention in a cluster via an approximation of the sum of all mentions in the cluster. We show how this can be done in a fully differentiable end-to-end manner, thus enabling high-order inferences in the resolution process. Our approach, which also employs BERT embeddings, results in new state-of-the-art results on the CoNLL-2012 coreference resolution task, improving average F1 by 3.6{\%}.
Coherence is an important aspect of text quality and is crucial for ensuring its readability. One important limitation of existing coherence models is that training on one domain does not easily generalize to unseen categories of text. Previous work advocates for generative models for cross-domain generalization, because for discriminative models, the space of incoherent sentence orderings to discriminate against during training is prohibitively large. In this work, we propose a local discriminative neural model with a much smaller negative sampling space that can efficiently learn against incorrect orderings. The proposed coherence model is simple in structure, yet it significantly outperforms previous state-of-art methods on a standard benchmark dataset on the Wall Street Journal corpus, as well as in multiple new challenging settings of transfer to unseen categories of discourse on Wikipedia articles.
In this work, we introduce the MOldavian and ROmanian Dialectal COrpus (MOROCO), which is freely available for download at https://github.com/butnaruandrei/MOROCO. The corpus contains 33564 samples of text (with over 10 million tokens) collected from the news domain. The samples belong to one of the following six topics: culture, finance, politics, science, sports and tech. The data set is divided into 21719 samples for training, 5921 samples for validation and another 5924 samples for testing. For each sample, we provide corresponding dialectal and category labels. This allows us to perform empirical studies on several classification tasks such as (i) binary discrimination of Moldavian versus Romanian text samples, (ii) intra-dialect multi-class categorization by topic and (iii) cross-dialect multi-class categorization by topic. We perform experiments using a shallow approach based on string kernels, as well as a novel deep approach based on character-level convolutional neural networks containing Squeeze-and-Excitation blocks. We also present and analyze the most discriminative features of our best performing model, before and after named entity removal.
The well-known problem of knowledge acquisition is one of the biggest issues in Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD), where annotated data are still scarce in English and almost absent in other languages. In this paper we formulate the assumption of One Sense per Wikipedia Category and present OneSeC, a language-independent method for the automatic extraction of hundreds of thousands of sentences in which a target word is tagged with its meaning. Our automatically-generated data consistently lead a supervised WSD model to state-of-the-art performance when compared with other automatic and semi-automatic methods. Moreover, our approach outperforms its competitors on multilingual and domain-specific settings, where it beats the existing state of the art on all languages and most domains. All the training data are available for research purposes at http://trainomatic.org/onesec.
Cross-lingual word embeddings (CLEs) facilitate cross-lingual transfer of NLP models. Despite their ubiquitous downstream usage, increasingly popular projection-based CLE models are almost exclusively evaluated on bilingual lexicon induction (BLI). Even the BLI evaluations vary greatly, hindering our ability to correctly interpret performance and properties of different CLE models. In this work, we take the first step towards a comprehensive evaluation of CLE models: we thoroughly evaluate both supervised and unsupervised CLE models, for a large number of language pairs, on BLI and three downstream tasks, providing new insights concerning the ability of cutting-edge CLE models to support cross-lingual NLP. We empirically demonstrate that the performance of CLE models largely depends on the task at hand and that optimizing CLE models for BLI may hurt downstream performance. We indicate the most robust supervised and unsupervised CLE models and emphasize the need to reassess simple baselines, which still display competitive performance across the board. We hope our work catalyzes further research on CLE evaluation and model analysis.
Selectional Preference (SP) is a commonly observed language phenomenon and proved to be useful in many natural language processing tasks. To provide a better evaluation method for SP models, we introduce SP-10K, a large-scale evaluation set that provides human ratings for the plausibility of 10,000 SP pairs over five SP relations, covering 2,500 most frequent verbs, nouns, and adjectives in American English. Three representative SP acquisition methods based on pseudo-disambiguation are evaluated with SP-10K. To demonstrate the importance of our dataset, we investigate the relationship between SP-10K and the commonsense knowledge in ConceptNet5 and show the potential of using SP to represent the commonsense knowledge. We also use the Winograd Schema Challenge to prove that the proposed new SP relations are essential for the hard pronoun coreference resolution problem.
We perform an interdisciplinary large-scale evaluation for detecting lexical semantic divergences in a diachronic and in a synchronic task: semantic sense changes across time, and semantic sense changes across domains. Our work addresses the superficialness and lack of comparison in assessing models of diachronic lexical change, by bringing together and extending benchmark models on a common state-of-the-art evaluation task. In addition, we demonstrate that the same evaluation task and modelling approaches can successfully be utilised for the synchronic detection of domain-specific sense divergences in the field of term extraction.
Though error analysis is crucial to understanding and improving NLP models, the common practice of manual, subjective categorization of a small sample of errors can yield biased and incomplete conclusions. This paper codifies model and task agnostic principles for informative error analysis, and presents Errudite, an interactive tool for better supporting this process. First, error groups should be precisely defined for reproducibility; Errudite supports this with an expressive domain-specific language. Second, to avoid spurious conclusions, a large set of instances should be analyzed, including both positive and negative examples; Errudite enables systematic grouping of relevant instances with filtering queries. Third, hypotheses about the cause of errors should be explicitly tested; Errudite supports this via automated counterfactual rewriting. We validate our approach with a user study, finding that Errudite (1) enables users to perform high quality and reproducible error analyses with less effort, (2) reveals substantial ambiguities in prior published error analyses practices, and (3) enhances the error analysis experience by allowing users to test and revise prior beliefs.
Multiple entities in a document generally exhibit complex inter-sentence relations, and cannot be well handled by existing relation extraction (RE) methods that typically focus on extracting intra-sentence relations for single entity pairs. In order to accelerate the research on document-level RE, we introduce DocRED, a new dataset constructed from Wikipedia and Wikidata with three features: (1) DocRED annotates both named entities and relations, and is the largest human-annotated dataset for document-level RE from plain text; (2) DocRED requires reading multiple sentences in a document to extract entities and infer their relations by synthesizing all information of the document; (3) along with the human-annotated data, we also offer large-scale distantly supervised data, which enables DocRED to be adopted for both supervised and weakly supervised scenarios. In order to verify the challenges of document-level RE, we implement recent state-of-the-art methods for RE and conduct a thorough evaluation of these methods on DocRED. Empirical results show that DocRED is challenging for existing RE methods, which indicates that document-level RE remains an open problem and requires further efforts. Based on the detailed analysis on the experiments, we discuss multiple promising directions for future research. We make DocRED and the code for our baselines publicly available at https://github.com/thunlp/DocRED.
Cloze-style reading comprehension in Chinese is still limited due to the lack of various corpora. In this paper we propose a large-scale Chinese cloze test dataset ChID, which studies the comprehension of idiom, a unique language phenomenon in Chinese. In this corpus, the idioms in a passage are replaced by blank symbols and the correct answer needs to be chosen from well-designed candidate idioms. We carefully study how the design of candidate idioms and the representation of idioms affect the performance of state-of-the-art models. Results show that the machine accuracy is substantially worse than that of human, indicating a large space for further research.
Topic models are typically evaluated with respect to the global topic distributions that they generate, using metrics such as coherence, but without regard to local (token-level) topic assignments. Token-level assignments are important for downstream tasks such as classification. Even recent models, which aim to improve the quality of these token-level topic assignments, have been evaluated only with respect to global metrics. We propose a task designed to elicit human judgments of token-level topic assignments. We use a variety of topic model types and parameters and discover that global metrics agree poorly with human assignments. Since human evaluation is expensive we propose a variety of automated metrics to evaluate topic models at a local level. Finally, we correlate our proposed metrics with human judgments from the task on several datasets. We show that an evaluation based on the percent of topic switches correlates most strongly with human judgment of local topic quality. We suggest that this new metric, which we call consistency, be adopted alongside global metrics such as topic coherence when evaluating new topic models.
One of the key steps in language resource creation is the identification of the text segments to be annotated, or markables, which depending on the task may vary from nominal chunks for named entity resolution to (potentially nested) noun phrases in coreference resolution (or mentions) to larger text segments in text segmentation. Markable identification is typically carried out semi-automatically, by running a markable identifier and correcting its output by hand{--}which is increasingly done via annotators recruited through crowdsourcing and aggregating their responses. In this paper, we present a method for identifying markables for coreference annotation that combines high-performance automatic markable detectors with checking with a Game-With-A-Purpose (GWAP) and aggregation using a Bayesian annotation model. The method was evaluated both on news data and data from a variety of other genres and results in an improvement on F1 of mention boundaries of over seven percentage points when compared with a state-of-the-art, domain-independent automatic mention detector, and almost three points over an in-domain mention detector. One of the key contributions of our proposal is its applicability to the case in which markables are nested, as is the case with coreference markables; but the GWAP and several of the proposed markable detectors are task and language-independent and are thus applicable to a variety of other annotation scenarios.
Over-dependence on domain ontology and lack of sharing knowledge across domains are two practical and yet less studied problems of dialogue state tracking. Existing approaches generally fall short when tracking unknown slot values during inference and often have difficulties in adapting to new domains. In this paper, we propose a Transferable Dialogue State Generator (TRADE) that generates dialogue states from utterances using copy mechanism, facilitating transfer when predicting (domain, slot, value) triplets not encountered during training. Our model is composed of an utterance encoder, a slot gate, and a state generator, which are shared across domains. Empirical results demonstrate that TRADE achieves state-of-the-art 48.62{\%} joint goal accuracy for the five domains of MultiWOZ, a human-human dialogue dataset. In addition, we show the transferring ability by simulating zero-shot and few-shot dialogue state tracking for unseen domains. TRADE achieves 60.58{\%} joint goal accuracy in one of the zero-shot domains, and is able to adapt to few-shot cases without forgetting already trained domains.
We present methods for multi-task learning that take advantage of natural groupings of related tasks. Task groups may be defined along known properties of the tasks, such as task domain or language. Such task groups represent supervised information at the inter-task level and can be encoded into the model. We investigate two variants of neural network architectures that accomplish this, learning different feature spaces at the levels of individual tasks, task groups, as well as the universe of all tasks: (1) parallel architectures encode each input simultaneously into feature spaces at different levels; (2) serial architectures encode each input successively into feature spaces at different levels in the task hierarchy. We demonstrate the methods on natural language understanding (NLU) tasks, where a grouping of tasks into different task domains leads to improved performance on ATIS, Snips, and a large in-house dataset.
Generating fluent natural language responses from structured semantic representations is a critical step in task-oriented conversational systems. Avenues like the E2E NLG Challenge have encouraged the development of neural approaches, particularly sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) models for this problem. The semantic representations used, however, are often underspecified, which places a higher burden on the generation model for sentence planning, and also limits the extent to which generated responses can be controlled in a live system. In this paper, we (1) propose using tree-structured semantic representations, like those used in traditional rule-based NLG systems, for better discourse-level structuring and sentence-level planning; (2) introduce a challenging dataset using this representation for the weather domain; (3) introduce a constrained decoding approach for Seq2Seq models that leverages this representation to improve semantic correctness; and (4) demonstrate promising results on our dataset and the E2E dataset.
We study a conversational reasoning model that strategically traverses through a large-scale common fact knowledge graph (KG) to introduce engaging and contextually diverse entities and attributes. For this study, we collect a new Open-ended Dialog {\textless}-{\textgreater} KG parallel corpus called OpenDialKG, where each utterance from 15K human-to-human role-playing dialogs is manually annotated with ground-truth reference to corresponding entities and paths from a large-scale KG with 1M+ facts. We then propose the DialKG Walker model that learns the symbolic transitions of dialog contexts as structured traversals over KG, and predicts natural entities to introduce given previous dialog contexts via a novel domain-agnostic, attention-based graph path decoder. Automatic and human evaluations show that our model can retrieve more natural and human-like responses than the state-of-the-art baselines or rule-based models, in both in-domain and cross-domain tasks. The proposed model also generates a KG walk path for each entity retrieved, providing a natural way to explain conversational reasoning.
In this paper, we present an approach to incorporate retrieved datapoints as supporting evidence for context-dependent semantic parsing, such as generating source code conditioned on the class environment. Our approach naturally combines a retrieval model and a meta-learner, where the former learns to find similar datapoints from the training data, and the latter considers retrieved datapoints as a pseudo task for fast adaptation. Specifically, our retriever is a context-aware encoder-decoder model with a latent variable which takes context environment into consideration, and our meta-learner learns to utilize retrieved datapoints in a model-agnostic meta-learning paradigm for fast adaptation. We conduct experiments on CONCODE and CSQA datasets, where the context refers to class environment in JAVA codes and conversational history, respectively. We use sequence-to-action model as the base semantic parser, which performs the state-of-the-art accuracy on both datasets. Results show that both the context-aware retriever and the meta-learning strategy improve accuracy, and our approach performs better than retrieve-and-edit baselines.
Resolving pronoun coreference requires knowledge support, especially for particular domains (e.g., medicine). In this paper, we explore how to leverage different types of knowledge to better resolve pronoun coreference with a neural model. To ensure the generalization ability of our model, we directly incorporate knowledge in the format of triplets, which is the most common format of modern knowledge graphs, instead of encoding it with features or rules as that in conventional approaches. Moreover, since not all knowledge is helpful in certain contexts, to selectively use them, we propose a knowledge attention module, which learns to select and use informative knowledge based on contexts, to enhance our model. Experimental results on two datasets from different domains prove the validity and effectiveness of our model, where it outperforms state-of-the-art baselines by a large margin. Moreover, since our model learns to use external knowledge rather than only fitting the training data, it also demonstrates superior performance to baselines in the cross-domain setting.
Natural Language Inference (NLI) datasets often contain hypothesis-only biases{---}artifacts that allow models to achieve non-trivial performance without learning whether a premise entails a hypothesis. We propose two probabilistic methods to build models that are more robust to such biases and better transfer across datasets. In contrast to standard approaches to NLI, our methods predict the probability of a premise given a hypothesis and NLI label, discouraging models from ignoring the premise. We evaluate our methods on synthetic and existing NLI datasets by training on datasets containing biases and testing on datasets containing no (or different) hypothesis-only biases. Our results indicate that these methods can make NLI models more robust to dataset-specific artifacts, transferring better than a baseline architecture in 9 out of 12 NLI datasets. Additionally, we provide an extensive analysis of the interplay of our methods with known biases in NLI datasets, as well as the effects of encouraging models to ignore biases and fine-tuning on target datasets.
Fact verification (FV) is a challenging task which requires to retrieve relevant evidence from plain text and use the evidence to verify given claims. Many claims require to simultaneously integrate and reason over several pieces of evidence for verification. However, previous work employs simple models to extract information from evidence without letting evidence communicate with each other, e.g., merely concatenate the evidence for processing. Therefore, these methods are unable to grasp sufficient relational and logical information among the evidence. To alleviate this issue, we propose a graph-based evidence aggregating and reasoning (GEAR) framework which enables information to transfer on a fully-connected evidence graph and then utilizes different aggregators to collect multi-evidence information. We further employ BERT, an effective pre-trained language representation model, to improve the performance. Experimental results on a large-scale benchmark dataset FEVER have demonstrated that GEAR could leverage multi-evidence information for FV and thus achieves the promising result with a test FEVER score of 67.10{\%}. Our code is available at https://github.com/thunlp/GEAR.
We present SherLIiC, a testbed for lexical inference in context (LIiC), consisting of 3985 manually annotated inference rule candidates (InfCands), accompanied by (i) {\textasciitilde}960k unlabeled InfCands, and (ii) {\textasciitilde}190k typed textual relations between Freebase entities extracted from the large entity-linked corpus ClueWeb09. Each InfCand consists of one of these relations, expressed as a lemmatized dependency path, and two argument placeholders, each linked to one or more Freebase types. Due to our candidate selection process based on strong distributional evidence, SherLIiC is much harder than existing testbeds because distributional evidence is of little utility in the classification of InfCands. We also show that, due to its construction, many of SherLIiC{'}s correct InfCands are novel and missing from existing rule bases. We evaluate a large number of strong baselines on SherLIiC, ranging from semantic vector space models to state of the art neural models of natural language inference (NLI). We show that SherLIiC poses a tough challenge to existing NLI systems.
This paper describes novel models tailored for a new application, that of extracting the symptoms mentioned in clinical conversations along with their status. Lack of any publicly available corpus in this privacy-sensitive domain led us to develop our own corpus, consisting of about 3K conversations annotated by professional medical scribes. We propose two novel deep learning approaches to infer the symptom names and their status: (1) a new hierarchical span-attribute tagging (SA-T) model, trained using curriculum learning, and (2) a variant of sequence-to-sequence model which decodes the symptoms and their status from a few speaker turns within a sliding window over the conversation. This task stems from a realistic application of assisting medical providers in capturing symptoms mentioned by patients from their clinical conversations. To reflect this application, we define multiple metrics. From inter-rater agreement, we find that the task is inherently difficult. We conduct comprehensive evaluations on several contrasting conditions and observe that the performance of the models range from an F-score of 0.5 to 0.8 depending on the condition. Our analysis not only reveals the inherent challenges of the task, but also provides useful directions to improve the models.
The quality of a counseling intervention relies highly on the active collaboration between clients and counselors. In this paper, we explore several linguistic aspects of the collaboration process occurring during counseling conversations. Specifically, we address the differences between high-quality and low-quality counseling. Our approach examines participants{'} turn-by-turn interaction, their linguistic alignment, the sentiment expressed by speakers during the conversation, as well as the different topics being discussed. Our results suggest important language differences in low- and high-quality counseling, which we further use to derive linguistic features able to capture the differences between the two groups. These features are then used to build automatic classifiers that can predict counseling quality with accuracies of up to 88{\%}.
Mental health counseling is an enterprise with profound societal importance where conversations play a primary role. In order to acquire the conversational skills needed to face a challenging range of situations, mental health counselors must rely on training and on continued experience with actual clients. However, in the absence of large scale longitudinal studies, the nature and significance of this developmental process remain unclear. For example, prior literature suggests that experience might not translate into consequential changes in counselor behavior. This has led some to even argue that counseling is a profession without expertise. In this work, we develop a computational framework to quantify the extent to which individuals change their linguistic behavior with experience and to study the nature of this evolution. We use our framework to conduct a large longitudinal study of mental health counseling conversations, tracking over 3,400 counselors across their tenure. We reveal that overall, counselors do indeed change their conversational behavior to become more diverse across interactions, developing an individual voice that distinguishes them from other counselors. Furthermore, a finer-grained investigation shows that the rate and nature of this diversification vary across functionally different conversational components.
We discuss ongoing work into automating a multilingual digital helpdesk service available via text messaging to pregnant and breastfeeding mothers in South Africa. Our anonymized dataset consists of short informal questions, often in low-resource languages, with unreliable language labels, spelling errors and code-mixing, as well as template answers with some inconsistencies. We explore cross-lingual word embeddings, and train parametric and non-parametric models on 90K samples for answer selection from a set of 126 templates. Preliminary results indicate that LSTMs trained end-to-end perform best, with a test accuracy of 62.13{\%} and a recall@5 of 89.56{\%}, and demonstrate that we can accelerate response time by several orders of magnitude.
Negative medical findings are prevalent in clinical reports, yet discriminating them from positive findings remains a challenging task for in-formation extraction. Most of the existing systems treat this task as a pipeline of two separate tasks, i.e., named entity recognition (NER)and rule-based negation detection. We consider this as a multi-task problem and present a novel end-to-end neural model to jointly extract entities and negations. We extend a standard hierarchical encoder-decoder NER model and first adopt a shared encoder followed by separate decoders for the two tasks. This architecture performs considerably better than the previous rule-based and machine learning-based systems. To overcome the problem of increased parameter size especially for low-resource settings, we propose the Conditional Softmax Shared Decoder architecture which achieves state-of-art results for NER and negation detection on the 2010 i2b2/VA challenge dataset and a proprietary de-identified clinical dataset.
We present HEAD-QA, a multi-choice question answering testbed to encourage research on complex reasoning. The questions come from exams to access a specialized position in the Spanish healthcare system, and are challenging even for highly specialized humans. We then consider monolingual (Spanish) and cross-lingual (to English) experiments with information retrieval and neural techniques. We show that: (i) HEAD-QA challenges current methods, and (ii) the results lag well behind human performance, demonstrating its usefulness as a benchmark for future work.
With the advancement in argument detection, we suggest to pay more attention to the challenging task of identifying the more convincing arguments. Machines capable of responding and interacting with humans in helpful ways have become ubiquitous. We now expect them to discuss with us the more delicate questions in our world, and they should do so armed with effective arguments. But what makes an argument more persuasive? What will convince you? In this paper, we present a new data set, IBM-EviConv, of pairs of evidence labeled for convincingness, designed to be more challenging than existing alternatives. We also propose a Siamese neural network architecture shown to outperform several baselines on both a prior convincingness data set and our own. Finally, we provide insights into our experimental results and the various kinds of argumentative value our method is capable of detecting.
When debating a controversial topic, it is often desirable to expand the boundaries of discussion. For example, we may consider the pros and cons of possible alternatives to the debate topic, make generalizations, or give specific examples. We introduce the task of Debate Topic Expansion - finding such related topics for a given debate topic, along with a novel annotated dataset for the task. We focus on relations between Wikipedia concepts, and show that they differ from well-studied lexical-semantic relations such as hypernyms, hyponyms and antonyms. We present algorithms for finding both consistent and contrastive expansions and demonstrate their effectiveness empirically. We suggest that debate topic expansion may have various use cases in argumentation mining.
Studies on emotion recognition (ER) show that combining lexical and acoustic information results in more robust and accurate models. The majority of the studies focus on settings where both modalities are available in training and evaluation. However, in practice, this is not always the case; getting ASR output may represent a bottleneck in a deployment pipeline due to computational complexity or privacy-related constraints. To address this challenge, we study the problem of efficiently combining acoustic and lexical modalities during training while still providing a deployable acoustic model that does not require lexical inputs. We first experiment with multimodal models and two attention mechanisms to assess the extent of the benefits that lexical information can provide. Then, we frame the task as a multi-view learning problem to induce semantic information from a multimodal model into our acoustic-only network using a contrastive loss function. Our multimodal model outperforms the previous state of the art on the USC-IEMOCAP dataset reported on lexical and acoustic information. Additionally, our multi-view-trained acoustic network significantly surpasses models that have been exclusively trained with acoustic features.
Emotion cause extraction (ECE), the task aimed at extracting the potential causes behind certain emotions in text, has gained much attention in recent years due to its wide applications. However, it suffers from two shortcomings: 1) the emotion must be annotated before cause extraction in ECE, which greatly limits its applications in real-world scenarios; 2) the way to first annotate emotion and then extract the cause ignores the fact that they are mutually indicative. In this work, we propose a new task: emotion-cause pair extraction (ECPE), which aims to extract the potential pairs of emotions and corresponding causes in a document. We propose a 2-step approach to address this new ECPE task, which first performs individual emotion extraction and cause extraction via multi-task learning, and then conduct emotion-cause pairing and filtering. The experimental results on a benchmark emotion cause corpus prove the feasibility of the ECPE task as well as the effectiveness of our approach.
Competitive debaters often find themselves facing a challenging task {--} how to debate a topic they know very little about, with only minutes to prepare, and without access to books or the Internet? What they often do is rely on {''}first principles{''}, commonplace arguments which are relevant to many topics, and which they have refined in past debates. In this work we aim to explicitly define a taxonomy of such principled recurring arguments, and, given a controversial topic, to automatically identify which of these arguments are relevant to the topic. As far as we know, this is the first time that this approach to argument invention is formalized and made explicit in the context of NLP. The main goal of this work is to show that it is possible to define such a taxonomy. While the taxonomy suggested here should be thought of as a {''}first attempt{''} it is nonetheless coherent, covers well the relevant topics and coincides with what professional debaters actually argue in their speeches, and facilitates automatic argument invention for new topics.
The most important obstacles facing multi-document summarization include excessive redundancy in source descriptions and the looming shortage of training data. These obstacles prevent encoder-decoder models from being used directly, but optimization-based methods such as determinantal point processes (DPPs) are known to handle them well. In this paper we seek to strengthen a DPP-based method for extractive multi-document summarization by presenting a novel similarity measure inspired by capsule networks. The approach measures redundancy between a pair of sentences based on surface form and semantic information. We show that our DPP system with improved similarity measure performs competitively, outperforming strong summarization baselines on benchmark datasets. Our findings are particularly meaningful for summarizing documents created by multiple authors containing redundant yet lexically diverse expressions.
We propose a global optimization method under length constraint (GOLC) for neural text summarization models. GOLC increases the probabilities of generating summaries that have high evaluation scores, ROUGE in this paper, within a desired length. We compared GOLC with two optimization methods, a maximum log-likelihood and a minimum risk training, on CNN/Daily Mail and a Japanese single document summarization data set of The Mainichi Shimbun Newspapers. The experimental results show that a state-of-the-art neural summarization model optimized with GOLC generates fewer overlength summaries while maintaining the fastest processing speed; only 6.70{\%} overlength summaries on CNN/Daily and 7.8{\%} on long summary of Mainichi, compared to the approximately 20{\%} to 50{\%} on CNN/Daily Mail and 10{\%} to 30{\%} on Mainichi with the other optimization methods. We also demonstrate the importance of the generation of in-length summaries for post-editing with the dataset Mainich that is created with strict length constraints. The ex- perimental results show approximately 30{\%} to 40{\%} improved post-editing time by use of in-length summaries.
The recent years have seen remarkable success in the use of deep neural networks on text summarization. However, there is no clear understanding of why they perform so well, or how they might be improved. In this paper, we seek to better understand how neural extractive summarization systems could benefit from different types of model architectures, transferable knowledge and learning schemas. Besides, we find an effective way to improve the current framework and achieve the state-of-the-art result on CNN/DailyMail by a large margin based on our observations and analysis. Hopefully, our work could provide more hints for future research on extractive summarization.
Research on summarization has mainly been driven by empirical approaches, crafting systems to perform well on standard datasets with the notion of information Importance remaining latent. We argue that establishing theoretical models of Importance will advance our understanding of the task and help to further improve summarization systems. To this end, we propose simple but rigorous definitions of several concepts that were previously used only intuitively in summarization: Redundancy, Relevance, and Informativeness. Importance arises as a single quantity naturally unifying these concepts. Additionally, we provide intuitions to interpret the proposed quantities and experiments to demonstrate the potential of the framework to inform and guide subsequent works.
Automatic generation of summaries from multiple news articles is a valuable tool as the number of online publications grows rapidly. Single document summarization (SDS) systems have benefited from advances in neural encoder-decoder model thanks to the availability of large datasets. However, multi-document summarization (MDS) of news articles has been limited to datasets of a couple of hundred examples. In this paper, we introduce Multi-News, the first large-scale MDS news dataset. Additionally, we propose an end-to-end model which incorporates a traditional extractive summarization model with a standard SDS model and achieves competitive results on MDS datasets. We benchmark several methods on Multi-News and hope that this work will promote advances in summarization in the multi-document setting.
We address the problem of adversarial attacks on text classification, which is rarely studied comparing to attacks on image classification. The challenge of this task is to generate adversarial examples that maintain lexical correctness, grammatical correctness and semantic similarity. Based on the synonyms substitution strategy, we introduce a new word replacement order determined by both the word saliency and the classification probability, and propose a greedy algorithm called probability weighted word saliency (PWWS) for text adversarial attack. Experiments on three popular datasets using convolutional as well as LSTM models show that PWWS reduces the classification accuracy to the most extent, and keeps a very low word substitution rate. A human evaluation study shows that our generated adversarial examples maintain the semantic similarity well and are hard for humans to perceive. Performing adversarial training using our perturbed datasets improves the robustness of the models. At last, our method also exhibits a good transferability on the generated adversarial examples.
Authorship verification is the task of determining whether two texts were written by the same author. We deal with the adversary task, called authorship obfuscation: preventing verification by altering a to-be-obfuscated text. Our new obfuscation approach (1) models writing style difference as the Jensen-Shannon distance between the character n-gram distributions of texts, and (2) manipulates an author{'}s subconsciously encoded writing style in a sophisticated manner using heuristic search. To obfuscate, we analyze the huge space of textual variants for a paraphrased version of the to-be-obfuscated text that has a sufficient Jensen-Shannon distance at minimal costs in terms of text quality. We analyze, quantify, and illustrate the rationale of this approach, define paraphrasing operators, derive obfuscation thresholds, and develop an effective obfuscation framework. Our authorship obfuscation approach defeats state-of-the-art verification approaches, including unmasking and compression models, while keeping text changes at a minimum.
Distributions of the senses of words are often highly skewed and give a strong influence of the domain of a document. This paper follows the assumption and presents a method for text categorization by leveraging the predominant sense of words depending on the domain, i.e., domain-specific senses. The key idea is that the features learned from predominant senses are possible to discriminate the domain of the document and thus improve the overall performance of text categorization. We propose multi-task learning framework based on the neural network model, transformer, which trains a model to simultaneously categorize documents and predicts a predominant sense for each word. The experimental results using four benchmark datasets show that our method is comparable to the state-of-the-art categorization approach, especially our model works well for categorization of multi-label documents.
Automatically validating a research artefact is one of the frontiers in Artificial Intelligence (AI) that directly brings it close to competing with human intellect and intuition. Although criticised sometimes, the existing peer review system still stands as the benchmark of research validation. The present-day peer review process is not straightforward and demands profound domain knowledge, expertise, and intelligence of human reviewer(s), which is somewhat elusive with the current state of AI. However, the peer review texts, which contains rich sentiment information of the reviewer, reflecting his/her overall attitude towards the research in the paper, could be a valuable entity to predict the acceptance or rejection of the manuscript under consideration. Here in this work, we investigate the role of reviewer sentiment embedded within peer review texts to predict the peer review outcome. Our proposed deep neural architecture takes into account three channels of information: the paper, the corresponding reviews, and review{'}s polarity to predict the overall recommendation score as well as the final decision. We achieve significant performance improvement over the baselines (∼ 29{\%} error reduction) proposed in a recently released dataset of peer reviews. An AI of this kind could assist the editors/program chairs as an additional layer of confidence, especially when non-responding/missing reviewers are frequent in present day peer review.
We present a novel conversational-context aware end-to-end speech recognizer based on a gated neural network that incorporates conversational-context/word/speech embeddings. Unlike conventional speech recognition models, our model learns longer conversational-context information that spans across sentences and is consequently better at recognizing long conversations. Specifically, we propose to use text-based external word and/or sentence embeddings (i.e., fastText, BERT) within an end-to-end framework, yielding significant improvement in word error rate with better conversational-context representation. We evaluated the models on the Switchboard conversational speech corpus and show that our model outperforms standard end-to-end speech recognition models.
Personal health mention detection deals with predicting whether or not a given sentence is a report of a health condition. Past work mentions errors in this prediction when symptom words, i.e., names of symptoms of interest, are used in a figurative sense. Therefore, we combine a state-of-the-art figurative usage detection with CNN-based personal health mention detection. To do so, we present two methods: a pipeline-based approach and a feature augmentation-based approach. The introduction of figurative usage detection results in an average improvement of 2.21{\%} F-score of personal health mention detection, in the case of the feature augmentation-based approach. This paper demonstrates the promise of using figurative usage detection to improve personal health mention detection.
Complex Word Identification (CWI) is concerned with detection of words in need of simplification and is a crucial first step in a simplification pipeline. It has been shown that reliable CWI systems considerably improve text simplification. However, most CWI systems to date address the task on a word-by-word basis, not taking the context into account. In this paper, we present a novel approach to CWI based on sequence modelling. Our system is capable of performing CWI in context, does not require extensive feature engineering and outperforms state-of-the-art systems on this task.
News recommendation can help users find interested news and alleviate information overload. The topic information of news is critical for learning accurate news and user representations for news recommendation. However, it is not considered in many existing news recommendation methods. In this paper, we propose a neural news recommendation approach with topic-aware news representations. The core of our approach is a topic-aware news encoder and a user encoder. In the news encoder we learn representations of news from their titles via CNN networks and apply attention networks to select important words. In addition, we propose to learn topic-aware news representations by jointly training the news encoder with an auxiliary topic classification task. In the user encoder we learn the representations of users from their browsed news and use attention networks to select informative news for user representation learning. Extensive experiments on a real-world dataset validate the effectiveness of our approach.
The word ordering in a Sanskrit verse is often not aligned with its corresponding prose order. Conversion of the verse to its corresponding prose helps in better comprehension of the construction. Owing to the resource constraints, we formulate this task as a word ordering (linearisation) task. In doing so, we completely ignore the word arrangement at the verse side. k{\=a}vya guru, the approach we propose, essentially consists of a pipeline of two pretraining steps followed by a seq2seq model. The first pretraining step learns task-specific token embeddings from pretrained embeddings. In the next step, we generate multiple possible hypotheses for possible word arrangements of the input {\%}using another pretraining step. We then use them as inputs to a neural seq2seq model for the final prediction. We empirically show that the hypotheses generated by our pretraining step result in predictions that consistently outperform predictions based on the original order in the verse. Overall, k{\=a}vya guru outperforms current state of the art models in linearisation for the poetry to prose conversion task in Sanskrit.
In visual communication, text emphasis is used to increase the comprehension of written text to convey the author{'}s intent. We study the problem of emphasis selection, i.e. choosing candidates for emphasis in short written text, to enable automated design assistance in authoring. Without knowing the author{'}s intent and only considering the input text, multiple emphasis selections are valid. We propose a model that employs end-to-end label distribution learning (LDL) on crowd-sourced data and predicts a selection distribution, capturing the inter-subjectivity (common-sense) in the audience as well as the ambiguity of the input. We compare the model with several baselines in which the problem is transformed to single-label learning by mapping label distributions to absolute labels via majority voting.
In this study, we propose a new multi-task learning approach for rumor detection and stance classification tasks. This neural network model has a shared layer and two task specific layers. We incorporate the user credibility information into the rumor detection layer, and we also apply attention mechanism in the rumor detection process. The attended information include not only the hidden states in the rumor detection layer, but also the hidden states from the stance detection layer. The experiments on two datasets show that our proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art rumor detection approaches.
Human trafficking is a worldwide crisis. Traffickers exploit their victims by anonymously offering sexual services through online advertisements. These ads often contain clues that law enforcement can use to separate out potential trafficking cases from volunteer sex advertisements. The problem is that the sheer volume of ads is too overwhelming for manual processing. Ideally, a centralized semi-automated tool can be used to assist law enforcement agencies with this task. Here, we present an approach using natural language processing to identify trafficking ads on these websites. We propose a classifier by integrating multiple text feature sets, including the publicly available pre-trained textual language model Bi-directional Encoder Representation from transformers (BERT). In this paper, we demonstrate that a classifier using this composite feature set has significantly better performance compared to any single feature set alone.
Lattices are an efficient and effective method to encode ambiguity of upstream systems in natural language processing tasks, for example to compactly capture multiple speech recognition hypotheses, or to represent multiple linguistic analyses. Previous work has extended recurrent neural networks to model lattice inputs and achieved improvements in various tasks, but these models suffer from very slow computation speeds. This paper extends the recently proposed paradigm of self-attention to handle lattice inputs. Self-attention is a sequence modeling technique that relates inputs to one another by computing pairwise similarities and has gained popularity for both its strong results and its computational efficiency. To extend such models to handle lattices, we introduce probabilistic reachability masks that incorporate lattice structure into the model and support lattice scores if available. We also propose a method for adapting positional embeddings to lattice structures. We apply the proposed model to a speech translation task and find that it outperforms all examined baselines while being much faster to compute than previous neural lattice models during both training and inference.
Though machine translation errors caused by the lack of context beyond one sentence have long been acknowledged, the development of context-aware NMT systems is hampered by several problems. Firstly, standard metrics are not sensitive to improvements in consistency in document-level translations. Secondly, previous work on context-aware NMT assumed that the sentence-aligned parallel data consisted of complete documents while in most practical scenarios such document-level data constitutes only a fraction of the available parallel data. To address the first issue, we perform a human study on an English-Russian subtitles dataset and identify deixis, ellipsis and lexical cohesion as three main sources of inconsistency. We then create test sets targeting these phenomena. To address the second shortcoming, we consider a set-up in which a much larger amount of sentence-level data is available compared to that aligned at the document level. We introduce a model that is suitable for this scenario and demonstrate major gains over a context-agnostic baseline on our new benchmarks without sacrificing performance as measured with BLEU.
Multilingual neural machine translation (Multi-NMT) with one encoder-decoder model has made remarkable progress due to its simple deployment. However, this multilingual translation paradigm does not make full use of language commonality and parameter sharing between encoder and decoder. Furthermore, this kind of paradigm cannot outperform the individual models trained on bilingual corpus in most cases. In this paper, we propose a compact and language-sensitive method for multilingual translation. To maximize parameter sharing, we first present a universal representor to replace both encoder and decoder models. To make the representor sensitive for specific languages, we further introduce language-sensitive embedding, attention, and discriminator with the ability to enhance model performance. We verify our methods on various translation scenarios, including one-to-many, many-to-many and zero-shot. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed methods remarkably outperform strong standard multilingual translation systems on WMT and IWSLT datasets. Moreover, we find that our model is especially helpful in low-resource and zero-shot translation scenarios.
Unsupervised bilingual word embedding (UBWE), together with other technologies such as back-translation and denoising, has helped unsupervised neural machine translation (UNMT) achieve remarkable results in several language pairs. In previous methods, UBWE is first trained using non-parallel monolingual corpora and then this pre-trained UBWE is used to initialize the word embedding in the encoder and decoder of UNMT. That is, the training of UBWE and UNMT are separate. In this paper, we first empirically investigate the relationship between UBWE and UNMT. The empirical findings show that the performance of UNMT is significantly affected by the performance of UBWE. Thus, we propose two methods that train UNMT with UBWE agreement. Empirical results on several language pairs show that the proposed methods significantly outperform conventional UNMT.
Transfer learning or multilingual model is essential for low-resource neural machine translation (NMT), but the applicability is limited to cognate languages by sharing their vocabularies. This paper shows effective techniques to transfer a pretrained NMT model to a new, unrelated language without shared vocabularies. We relieve the vocabulary mismatch by using cross-lingual word embedding, train a more language-agnostic encoder by injecting artificial noises, and generate synthetic data easily from the pretraining data without back-translation. Our methods do not require restructuring the vocabulary or retraining the model. We improve plain NMT transfer by up to +5.1{\%} BLEU in five low-resource translation tasks, outperforming multilingual joint training by a large margin. We also provide extensive ablation studies on pretrained embedding, synthetic data, vocabulary size, and parameter freezing for a better understanding of NMT transfer.
Zero-shot translation, translating between language pairs on which a Neural Machine Translation (NMT) system has never been trained, is an emergent property when training the system in multilingual settings. However, naive training for zero-shot NMT easily fails, and is sensitive to hyper-parameter setting. The performance typically lags far behind the more conventional pivot-based approach which translates twice using a third language as a pivot. In this work, we address the degeneracy problem due to capturing spurious correlations by quantitatively analyzing the mutual information between language IDs of the source and decoded sentences. Inspired by this analysis, we propose to use two simple but effective approaches: (1) decoder pre-training; (2) back-translation. These methods show significant improvement (4 22 BLEU points) over the vanilla zero-shot translation on three challenging multilingual datasets, and achieve similar or better results than the pivot-based approach.
Standard decoders for neural machine translation autoregressively generate a single target token per timestep, which slows inference especially for long outputs. While architectural advances such as the Transformer fully parallelize the decoder computations at training time, inference still proceeds sequentially. Recent developments in non- and semi-autoregressive decoding produce multiple tokens per timestep independently of the others, which improves inference speed but deteriorates translation quality. In this work, we propose the syntactically supervised Transformer (SynST), which first autoregressively predicts a chunked parse tree before generating all of the target tokens in one shot conditioned on the predicted parse. A series of controlled experiments demonstrates that SynST decodes sentences {\textasciitilde}5x faster than the baseline autoregressive Transformer while achieving higher BLEU scores than most competing methods on En-De and En-Fr datasets.
Noise and domain are important aspects of data quality for neural machine translation. Existing research focus separately on domain-data selection, clean-data selection, or their static combination, leaving the dynamic interaction across them not explicitly examined. This paper introduces a {``}co-curricular learning{''} method to compose dynamic domain-data selection with dynamic clean-data selection, for transfer learning across both capabilities. We apply an EM-style optimization procedure to further refine the {``}co-curriculum{''}. Experiment results and analysis with two domains demonstrate the effectiveness of the method and the properties of data scheduled by the co-curriculum.
Prior researches suggest that neural machine translation (NMT) captures word alignment through its attention mechanism, however, this paper finds attention may almost fail to capture word alignment for some NMT models. This paper thereby proposes two methods to induce word alignment which are general and agnostic to specific NMT models. Experiments show that both methods induce much better word alignment than attention. This paper further visualizes the translation through the word alignment induced by NMT. In particular, it analyzes the effect of alignment errors on translation errors at word level and its quantitative analysis over many testing examples consistently demonstrate that alignment errors are likely to lead to translation errors measured by different metrics.
Non-autoregressive translation models (NAT) have achieved impressive inference speedup. A potential issue of the existing NAT algorithms, however, is that the decoding is conducted in parallel, without directly considering previous context. In this paper, we propose an imitation learning framework for non-autoregressive machine translation, which still enjoys the fast translation speed but gives comparable translation performance compared to its auto-regressive counterpart. We conduct experiments on the IWSLT16, WMT14 and WMT16 datasets. Our proposed model achieves a significant speedup over the autoregressive models, while keeping the translation quality comparable to the autoregressive models. By sampling sentence length in parallel at inference time, we achieve the performance of 31.85 BLEU on WMT16 Ro$\rightarrow$En and 30.68 BLEU on IWSLT16 En$\rightarrow$De.
Simultaneous machine translation begins to translate each source sentence before the source speaker is finished speaking, with applications to live and streaming scenarios. Simultaneous systems must carefully schedule their reading of the source sentence to balance quality against latency. We present the first simultaneous translation system to learn an adaptive schedule jointly with a neural machine translation (NMT) model that attends over all source tokens read thus far. We do so by introducing Monotonic Infinite Lookback (MILk) attention, which maintains both a hard, monotonic attention head to schedule the reading of the source sentence, and a soft attention head that extends from the monotonic head back to the beginning of the source. We show that MILk{'}s adaptive schedule allows it to arrive at latency-quality trade-offs that are favorable to those of a recently proposed wait-k strategy for many latency values.
Pre-trained embeddings such as word embeddings and sentence embeddings are fundamental tools facilitating a wide range of downstream NLP tasks. In this work, we investigate how to learn a general-purpose embedding of textual relations, defined as the shortest dependency path between entities. Textual relation embedding provides a level of knowledge between word/phrase level and sentence level, and we show that it can facilitate downstream tasks requiring relational understanding of the text. To learn such an embedding, we create the largest distant supervision dataset by linking the entire English ClueWeb09 corpus to Freebase. We use global co-occurrence statistics between textual and knowledge base relations as the supervision signal to train the embedding. Evaluation on two relational understanding tasks demonstrates the usefulness of the learned textual relation embedding. The data and code can be found at https://github.com/czyssrs/GloREPlus
In this paper, we propose a novel graph neural network with generated parameters (GP-GNNs). The parameters in the propagation module, i.e. the transition matrices used in message passing procedure, are produced by a generator taking natural language sentences as inputs. We verify GP-GNNs in relation extraction from text, both on bag- and instance-settings. Experimental results on a human-annotated dataset and two distantly supervised datasets show that multi-hop reasoning mechanism yields significant improvements. We also perform a qualitative analysis to demonstrate that our model could discover more accurate relations by multi-hop relational reasoning.
In this paper, we propose a new paradigm for the task of entity-relation extraction. We cast the task as a multi-turn question answering problem, i.e., the extraction of entities and elations is transformed to the task of identifying answer spans from the context. This multi-turn QA formalization comes with several key advantages: firstly, the question query encodes important information for the entity/relation class we want to identify; secondly, QA provides a natural way of jointly modeling entity and relation; and thirdly, it allows us to exploit the well developed machine reading comprehension (MRC) models. Experiments on the ACE and the CoNLL04 corpora demonstrate that the proposed paradigm significantly outperforms previous best models. We are able to obtain the state-of-the-art results on all of the ACE04, ACE05 and CoNLL04 datasets, increasing the SOTA results on the three datasets to 49.6 (+1.2), 60.3 (+0.7) and 69.2 (+1.4), respectively. Additionally, we construct and will release a newly developed dataset RESUME, which requires multi-step reasoning to construct entity dependencies, as opposed to the single-step dependency extraction in the triplet exaction in previous datasets. The proposed multi-turn QA model also achieves the best performance on the RESUME dataset.
In practical scenario, relation extraction needs to first identify entity pairs that have relation and then assign a correct relation class. However, the number of non-relation entity pairs in context (negative instances) usually far exceeds the others (positive instances), which negatively affects a model{'}s performance. To mitigate this problem, we propose a multi-task architecture which jointly trains a model to perform relation identification with cross-entropy loss and relation classification with ranking loss. Meanwhile, we observe that a sentence may have multiple entities and relation mentions, and the patterns in which the entities appear in a sentence may contain useful semantic information that can be utilized to distinguish between positive and negative instances. Thus we further incorporate the embeddings of character-wise/word-wise BIO tag from the named entity recognition task into character/word embeddings to enrich the input representation. Experiment results show that our proposed approach can significantly improve the performance of a baseline model with more than 10{\%} absolute increase in F1-score, and outperform the state-of-the-art models on ACE 2005 Chinese and English corpus. Moreover, BIO tag embeddings are particularly effective and can be used to improve other models as well.
We develop a new paradigm for the task of joint entity relation extraction. It first identifies entity spans, then performs a joint inference on entity types and relation types. To tackle the joint type inference task, we propose a novel graph convolutional network (GCN) running on an entity-relation bipartite graph. By introducing a binary relation classification task, we are able to utilize the structure of entity-relation bipartite graph in a more efficient and interpretable way. Experiments on ACE05 show that our model outperforms existing joint models in entity performance and is competitive with the state-of-the-art in relation performance.
Many approaches to extract multiple relations from a paragraph require multiple passes over the paragraph. In practice, multiple passes are computationally expensive and this makes difficult to scale to longer paragraphs and larger text corpora. In this work, we focus on the task of multiple relation extractions by encoding the paragraph only once. We build our solution upon the pre-trained self-attentive models (Transformer), where we first add a structured prediction layer to handle extraction between multiple entity pairs, then enhance the paragraph embedding to capture multiple relational information associated with each entity with entity-aware attention. We show that our approach is not only scalable but can also perform state-of-the-art on the standard benchmark ACE 2005.
Unsupervised relation extraction aims at extracting relations between entities in text. Previous unsupervised approaches are either generative or discriminative. In a supervised setting, discriminative approaches, such as deep neural network classifiers, have demonstrated substantial improvement. However, these models are hard to train without supervision, and the currently proposed solutions are unstable. To overcome this limitation, we introduce a skewness loss which encourages the classifier to predict a relation with confidence given a sentence, and a distribution distance loss enforcing that all relations are predicted in average. These losses improve the performance of discriminative based models, and enable us to train deep neural networks satisfactorily, surpassing current state of the art on three different datasets.
Distantly supervised relation extraction is widely used to extract relational facts from text, but suffers from noisy labels. Current relation extraction methods try to alleviate the noise by multi-instance learning and by providing supporting linguistic and contextual information to more efficiently guide the relation classification. While achieving state-of-the-art results, we observed these models to be biased towards recognizing a limited set of relations with high precision, while ignoring those in the long tail. To address this gap, we utilize a pre-trained language model, the OpenAI Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) (Radford et al., 2018). The GPT and similar models have been shown to capture semantic and syntactic features, and also a notable amount of {``}common-sense{''} knowledge, which we hypothesize are important features for recognizing a more diverse set of relations. By extending the GPT to the distantly supervised setting, and fine-tuning it on the NYT10 dataset, we show that it predicts a larger set of distinct relation types with high confidence. Manual and automated evaluation of our model shows that it achieves a state-of-the-art AUC score of 0.422 on the NYT10 dataset, and performs especially well at higher recall levels.
Distant supervision is widely used in relation classification in order to create large-scale training data by aligning a knowledge base with an unlabeled corpus. However, it also introduces amounts of noisy labels where a contextual sentence actually does not express the labeled relation. In this paper, we propose ARNOR, a novel Attention Regularization based NOise Reduction framework for distant supervision relation classification. ARNOR assumes that a trustable relation label should be explained by the neural attention model. Specifically, our ARNOR framework iteratively learns an interpretable model and utilizes it to select trustable instances. We first introduce attention regularization to force the model to pay attention to the patterns which explain the relation labels, so as to make the model more interpretable. Then, if the learned model can clearly locate the relation patterns of a candidate instance in the training set, we will select it as a trustable instance for further training step. According to the experiments on NYT data, our ARNOR framework achieves significant improvements over state-of-the-art methods in both relation classification performance and noise reduction effect.
In this paper, we present GraphRel, an end-to-end relation extraction model which uses graph convolutional networks (GCNs) to jointly learn named entities and relations. In contrast to previous baselines, we consider the interaction between named entities and relations via a 2nd-phase relation-weighted GCN to better extract relations. Linear and dependency structures are both used to extract both sequential and regional features of the text, and a complete word graph is further utilized to extract implicit features among all word pairs of the text. With the graph-based approach, the prediction for overlapping relations is substantially improved over previous sequential approaches. We evaluate GraphRel on two public datasets: NYT and WebNLG. Results show that GraphRel maintains high precision while increasing recall substantially. Also, GraphRel outperforms previous work by 3.2{\%} and 5.8{\%} (F1 score), achieving a new state-of-the-art for relation extraction.
Pattern-based labeling methods have achieved promising results in alleviating the inevitable labeling noises of distantly supervised neural relation extraction. However, these methods require significant expert labor to write relation-specific patterns, which makes them too sophisticated to generalize quickly. To ease the labor-intensive workload of pattern writing and enable the quick generalization to new relation types, we propose a neural pattern diagnosis framework, DIAG-NRE, that can automatically summarize and refine high-quality relational patterns from noise data with human experts in the loop. To demonstrate the effectiveness of DIAG-NRE, we apply it to two real-world datasets and present both significant and interpretable improvements over state-of-the-art methods.
This paper presents a novel framework, MGNER, for Multi-Grained Named Entity Recognition where multiple entities or entity mentions in a sentence could be non-overlapping or totally nested. Different from traditional approaches regarding NER as a sequential labeling task and annotate entities consecutively, MGNER detects and recognizes entities on multiple granularities: it is able to recognize named entities without explicitly assuming non-overlapping or totally nested structures. MGNER consists of a Detector that examines all possible word segments and a Classifier that categorizes entities. In addition, contextual information and a self-attention mechanism are utilized throughout the framework to improve the NER performance. Experimental results show that MGNER outperforms current state-of-the-art baselines up to 4.4{\%} in terms of the F1 score among nested/non-overlapping NER tasks.
Neural language representation models such as BERT pre-trained on large-scale corpora can well capture rich semantic patterns from plain text, and be fine-tuned to consistently improve the performance of various NLP tasks. However, the existing pre-trained language models rarely consider incorporating knowledge graphs (KGs), which can provide rich structured knowledge facts for better language understanding. We argue that informative entities in KGs can enhance language representation with external knowledge. In this paper, we utilize both large-scale textual corpora and KGs to train an enhanced language representation model (ERNIE), which can take full advantage of lexical, syntactic, and knowledge information simultaneously. The experimental results have demonstrated that ERNIE achieves significant improvements on various knowledge-driven tasks, and meanwhile is comparable with the state-of-the-art model BERT on other common NLP tasks. The code and datasets will be available in the future.
Entity alignment typically suffers from the issues of structural heterogeneity and limited seed alignments. In this paper, we propose a novel Multi-channel Graph Neural Network model (MuGNN) to learn alignment-oriented knowledge graph (KG) embeddings by robustly encoding two KGs via multiple channels. Each channel encodes KGs via different relation weighting schemes with respect to self-attention towards KG completion and cross-KG attention for pruning exclusive entities respectively, which are further combined via pooling techniques. Moreover, we also infer and transfer rule knowledge for completing two KGs consistently. MuGNN is expected to reconcile the structural differences of two KGs, and thus make better use of seed alignments. Extensive experiments on five publicly available datasets demonstrate our superior performance (5{\%} Hits@1 up on average). Source code and data used in the experiments can be accessed at https://github.com/thunlp/MuGNN .
Gazetteers were shown to be useful resources for named entity recognition (NER). Many existing approaches to incorporating gazetteers into machine learning based NER systems rely on manually defined selection strategies or handcrafted templates, which may not always lead to optimal effectiveness, especially when multiple gazetteers are involved. This is especially the case for the task of Chinese NER, where the words are not naturally tokenized, leading to additional ambiguities. To automatically learn how to incorporate multiple gazetteers into an NER system, we propose a novel approach based on graph neural networks with a multi-digraph structure that captures the information that the gazetteers offer. Experiments on various datasets show that our model is effective in incorporating rich gazetteer information while resolving ambiguities, outperforming previous approaches.
Highly regularized LSTMs achieve impressive results on several benchmark datasets in language modeling. We propose a new regularization method based on decoding the last token in the context using the predicted distribution of the next token. This biases the model towards retaining more contextual information, in turn improving its ability to predict the next token. With negligible overhead in the number of parameters and training time, our Past Decode Regularization (PDR) method improves perplexity on the Penn Treebank dataset by up to 1.8 points and by up to 2.3 points on the WikiText-2 dataset, over strong regularized baselines using a single softmax. With a mixture-of-softmax model, we show gains of up to 1.0 perplexity points on these datasets. In addition, our method achieves 1.169 bits-per-character on the Penn Treebank Character dataset for character level language modeling.
In this paper, we study the problem of hybrid language modeling, that is using models which can predict both characters and larger units such as character ngrams or words. Using such models, multiple potential segmentations usually exist for a given string, for example one using words and one using characters only. Thus, the probability of a string is the sum of the probabilities of all the possible segmentations. Here, we show how it is possible to marginalize over the segmentations efficiently, in order to compute the true probability of a sequence. We apply our technique on three datasets, comprising seven languages, showing improvements over a strong character level language model.
Common language models typically predict the next word given the context. In this work, we propose a method that improves language modeling by learning to align the given context and the following phrase. The model does not require any linguistic annotation of phrase segmentation. Instead, we define syntactic heights and phrase segmentation rules, enabling the model to automatically induce phrases, recognize their task-specific heads, and generate phrase embeddings in an unsupervised learning manner. Our method can easily be applied to language models with different network architectures since an independent module is used for phrase induction and context-phrase alignment, and no change is required in the underlying language modeling network. Experiments have shown that our model outperformed several strong baseline models on different data sets. We achieved a new state-of-the-art performance of 17.4 perplexity on the Wikitext-103 dataset. Additionally, visualizing the outputs of the phrase induction module showed that our model is able to learn approximate phrase-level structural knowledge without any annotation.
Many state-of-the-art neural models for NLP are heavily parameterized and thus memory inefficient. This paper proposes a series of lightweight and memory efficient neural architectures for a potpourri of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. To this end, our models exploit computation using Quaternion algebra and hypercomplex spaces, enabling not only expressive inter-component interactions but also significantly (75{\%}) reduced parameter size due to lesser degrees of freedom in the Hamilton product. We propose Quaternion variants of models, giving rise to new architectures such as the Quaternion attention Model and Quaternion Transformer. Extensive experiments on a battery of NLP tasks demonstrates the utility of proposed Quaternion-inspired models, enabling up to 75{\%} reduction in parameter size without significant loss in performance.
Sequence-to-sequence models are a powerful workhorse of NLP. Most variants employ a softmax transformation in both their attention mechanism and output layer, leading to dense alignments and strictly positive output probabilities. This density is wasteful, making models less interpretable and assigning probability mass to many implausible outputs. In this paper, we propose sparse sequence-to-sequence models, rooted in a new family of $\alpha$-entmax transformations, which includes softmax and sparsemax as particular cases, and is sparse for any $\alpha > 1$. We provide fast algorithms to evaluate these transformations and their gradients, which scale well for large vocabulary sizes. Our models are able to produce sparse alignments and to assign nonzero probability to a short list of plausible outputs, sometimes rendering beam search exact. Experiments on morphological inflection and machine translation reveal consistent gains over dense models.
This work examines the robustness of self-attentive neural networks against adversarial input perturbations. Specifically, we investigate the attention and feature extraction mechanisms of state-of-the-art recurrent neural networks and self-attentive architectures for sentiment analysis, entailment and machine translation under adversarial attacks. We also propose a novel attack algorithm for generating more natural adversarial examples that could mislead neural models but not humans. Experimental results show that, compared to recurrent neural models, self-attentive models are more robust against adversarial perturbation. In addition, we provide theoretical explanations for their superior robustness to support our claims.
Many common character-level, string-to-string transduction tasks, e.g., grapheme-to-phoneme conversion and morphological inflection, consist almost exclusively of monotonic transduction. Neural sequence-to-sequence models with soft attention, non-monotonic models, outperform popular monotonic models. In this work, we ask the following question: Is monotonicity really a helpful inductive bias in these tasks? We develop a hard attention sequence-to-sequence model that enforces strict monotonicity and learns alignment jointly. With the help of dynamic programming, we are able to compute the exact marginalization over all alignments. Our models achieve state-of-the-art performance on morphological inflection. Furthermore, we find strong performance on two other character-level transduction tasks. Code is available at https://github.com/shijie-wu/neural-transducer.
Recurrent networks have achieved great success on various sequential tasks with the assistance of complex recurrent units, but suffer from severe computational inefficiency due to weak parallelization. One direction to alleviate this issue is to shift heavy computations outside the recurrence. In this paper, we propose a lightweight recurrent network, or LRN. LRN uses input and forget gates to handle long-range dependencies as well as gradient vanishing and explosion, with all parameter related calculations factored outside the recurrence. The recurrence in LRN only manipulates the weight assigned to each token, tightly connecting LRN with self-attention networks. We apply LRN as a drop-in replacement of existing recurrent units in several neural sequential models. Extensive experiments on six NLP tasks show that LRN yields the best running efficiency with little or no loss in model performance.
Obstacles hindering the development of capsule networks for challenging NLP applications include poor scalability to large output spaces and less reliable routing processes. In this paper, we introduce: (i) an agreement score to evaluate the performance of routing processes at instance-level; (ii) an adaptive optimizer to enhance the reliability of routing; (iii) capsule compression and partial routing to improve the scalability of capsule networks. We validate our approach on two NLP tasks, namely: multi-label text classification and question answering. Experimental results show that our approach considerably improves over strong competitors on both tasks. In addition, we gain the best results in low-resource settings with few training instances.
Transfer learning is effective for improving the performance of tasks that are related, and Multi-task learning (MTL) and Cross-lingual learning (CLL) are important instances. This paper argues that hard-parameter sharing, of hard-coding layers shared across different tasks or languages, cannot generalize well, when sharing with a loosely related task. Such case, which we call sparse transfer, might actually hurt performance, a phenomenon known as negative transfer. Our contribution is using adversarial training across tasks, to {``}soft-code{''} shared and private spaces, to avoid the shared space gets too sparse. In CLL, our proposed architecture considers another challenge of dealing with low-quality input.
There has been an increased interest in multimodal language processing including multimodal dialog, question answering, sentiment analysis, and speech recognition. However, naturally occurring multimodal data is often imperfect as a result of imperfect modalities, missing entries or noise corruption. To address these concerns, we present a regularization method based on tensor rank minimization. Our method is based on the observation that high-dimensional multimodal time series data often exhibit correlations across time and modalities which leads to low-rank tensor representations. However, the presence of noise or incomplete values breaks these correlations and results in tensor representations of higher rank. We design a model to learn such tensor representations and effectively regularize their rank. Experiments on multimodal language data show that our model achieves good results across various levels of imperfection.
A lot of work has been done in the field of image compression via machine learning, but not much attention has been given to the compression of natural language. Compressing text into lossless representations while making features easily retrievable is not a trivial task, yet has huge benefits. Most methods designed to produce feature rich sentence embeddings focus solely on performing well on downstream tasks and are unable to properly reconstruct the original sequence from the learned embedding. In this work, we propose a near lossless method for encoding long sequences of texts as well as all of their sub-sequences into feature rich representations. We test our method on sentiment analysis and show good performance across all sub-sentence and sentence embeddings.
Pinyin-to-character (P2C) conversion is the core component of pinyin-based Chinese input method engine (IME). However, the conversion is seriously compromised by the ambiguities of Chinese characters corresponding to pinyin as well as the predefined fixed vocabularies. To alleviate such inconveniences, we propose a neural P2C conversion model augmented by an online updated vocabulary with a sampling mechanism to support open vocabulary learning during IME working. Our experiments show that the proposed method outperforms commercial IMEs and state-of-the-art traditional models on standard corpus and true inputting history dataset in terms of multiple metrics and thus the online updated vocabulary indeed helps our IME effectively follows user inputting behavior.
To ascertain the importance of phonetic information in the form of phonological distinctive features for the purpose of segment-level phonotactic acquisition, we compare the performance of two recurrent neural network models of phonotactic learning: one that has access to distinctive features at the start of the learning process, and one that does not. Though the predictions of both models are significantly correlated with human judgments of non-words, the feature-naive model significantly outperforms the feature-aware one in terms of probability assigned to a held-out test set of English words, suggesting that distinctive features are not obligatory for learning phonotactic patterns at the segment level.
We incorporate morphological supervision into character language models (CLMs) via multitasking and show that this addition improves bits-per-character (BPC) performance across 24 languages, even when the morphology data and language modeling data are disjoint. Analyzing the CLMs shows that inflected words benefit more from explicitly modeling morphology than uninflected words, and that morphological supervision improves performance even as the amount of language modeling data grows. We then transfer morphological supervision across languages to improve performance in the low-resource setting.
Training neural sequence-to-sequence models with simple token-level log-likelihood is now a standard approach to historical text normalization, albeit often outperformed by phrase-based models. Policy gradient training enables direct optimization for exact matches, and while the small datasets in historical text normalization are prohibitive of from-scratch reinforcement learning, we show that policy gradient fine-tuning leads to significant improvements across the board. Policy gradient training, in particular, leads to more accurate normalizations for long or unseen words.
For unsegmented languages such as Japanese and Chinese, tokenization of a sentence has a significant impact on the performance of text classification. Sentences are usually segmented with words or subwords by a morphological analyzer or byte pair encoding and then encoded with word (or subword) representations for neural networks. However, segmentation is potentially ambiguous, and it is unclear whether the segmented tokens achieve the best performance for the target task. In this paper, we propose a method to simultaneously learn tokenization and text classification to address these problems. Our model incorporates a language model for unsupervised tokenization into a text classifier and then trains both models simultaneously. To make the model robust against infrequent tokens, we sampled segmentation for each sentence stochastically during training, which resulted in improved performance of text classification. We conducted experiments on sentiment analysis as a text classification task and show that our method achieves better performance than previous methods.
As Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) tools rise in popularity, it becomes increasingly vital to recognize the role they play in shaping societal biases and stereotypes. Although NLP models have shown success in modeling various applications, they propagate and may even amplify gender bias found in text corpora. While the study of bias in artificial intelligence is not new, methods to mitigate gender bias in NLP are relatively nascent. In this paper, we review contemporary studies on recognizing and mitigating gender bias in NLP. We discuss gender bias based on four forms of representation bias and analyze methods recognizing gender bias. Furthermore, we discuss the advantages and drawbacks of existing gender debiasing methods. Finally, we discuss future studies for recognizing and mitigating gender bias in NLP.
Word embeddings learnt from massive text collections have demonstrated significant levels of discriminative biases such as gender, racial or ethnic biases, which in turn bias the down-stream NLP applications that use those word embeddings. Taking gender-bias as a working example, we propose a debiasing method that preserves non-discriminative gender-related information, while removing stereotypical discriminative gender biases from pre-trained word embeddings. Specifically, we consider four types of information: \textit{feminine}, \textit{masculine}, \textit{gender-neutral} and \textit{stereotypical}, which represent the relationship between gender vs. bias, and propose a debiasing method that (a) preserves the gender-related information in feminine and masculine words, (b) preserves the neutrality in gender-neutral words, and (c) removes the biases from stereotypical words. Experimental results on several previously proposed benchmark datasets show that our proposed method can debias pre-trained word embeddings better than existing SoTA methods proposed for debiasing word embeddings while preserving gender-related but non-discriminative information.
Gender stereotypes are manifest in most of the world{'}s languages and are consequently propagated or amplified by NLP systems. Although research has focused on mitigating gender stereotypes in English, the approaches that are commonly employed produce ungrammatical sentences in morphologically rich languages. We present a novel approach for converting between masculine-inflected and feminine-inflected sentences in such languages. For Spanish and Hebrew, our approach achieves F1 scores of 82{\%} and 73{\%} at the level of tags and accuracies of 90{\%} and 87{\%} at the level of forms. By evaluating our approach using four different languages, we show that, on average, it reduces gender stereotyping by a factor of 2.5 without any sacrifice to grammaticality.
Word embedding models have gained a lot of traction in the Natural Language Processing community, however, they suffer from unintended demographic biases. Most approaches to evaluate these biases rely on vector space based metrics like the Word Embedding Association Test (WEAT). While these approaches offer great geometric insights into unintended biases in the embedding vector space, they fail to offer an interpretable meaning for how the embeddings could cause discrimination in downstream NLP applications. In this work, we present a transparent framework and metric for evaluating discrimination across protected groups with respect to their word embedding bias. Our metric (Relative Negative Sentiment Bias, RNSB) measures fairness in word embeddings via the relative negative sentiment associated with demographic identity terms from various protected groups. We show that our framework and metric enable useful analysis into the bias in word embeddings.
We investigate how annotators{'} insensitivity to differences in dialect can lead to racial bias in automatic hate speech detection models, potentially amplifying harm against minority populations. We first uncover unexpected correlations between surface markers of African American English (AAE) and ratings of toxicity in several widely-used hate speech datasets. Then, we show that models trained on these corpora acquire and propagate these biases, such that AAE tweets and tweets by self-identified African Americans are up to two times more likely to be labelled as offensive compared to others. Finally, we propose *dialect* and *race priming* as ways to reduce the racial bias in annotation, showing that when annotators are made explicitly aware of an AAE tweet{'}s dialect they are significantly less likely to label the tweet as offensive.
We present the first challenge set and evaluation protocol for the analysis of gender bias in machine translation (MT). Our approach uses two recent coreference resolution datasets composed of English sentences which cast participants into non-stereotypical gender roles (e.g., {``}The doctor asked the nurse to help her in the operation{''}). We devise an automatic gender bias evaluation method for eight target languages with grammatical gender, based on morphological analysis (e.g., the use of female inflection for the word {``}doctor{''}). Our analyses show that four popular industrial MT systems and two recent state-of-the-art academic MT models are significantly prone to gender-biased translation errors for all tested target languages. Our data and code are publicly available at https://github.com/gabrielStanovsky/mt{\_}gender.
Word embeddings are often criticized for capturing undesirable word associations such as gender stereotypes. However, methods for measuring and removing such biases remain poorly understood. We show that for any embedding model that implicitly does matrix factorization, debiasing vectors post hoc using subspace projection (Bolukbasi et al., 2016) is, under certain conditions, equivalent to training on an unbiased corpus. We also prove that WEAT, the most common association test for word embeddings, systematically overestimates bias. Given that the subspace projection method is provably effective, we use it to derive a new measure of association called the relational inner product association (RIPA). Experiments with RIPA reveal that, on average, skipgram with negative sampling (SGNS) does not make most words any more gendered than they are in the training corpus. However, for gender-stereotyped words, SGNS actually amplifies the gender association in the corpus.
Studying the ways in which language is gendered has long been an area of interest in sociolinguistics. Studies have explored, for example, the speech of male and female characters in film and the language used to describe male and female politicians. In this paper, we aim not to merely study this phenomenon qualitatively, but instead to quantify the degree to which the language used to describe men and women is different and, moreover, different in a positive or negative way. To that end, we introduce a generative latent-variable model that jointly represents adjective (or verb) choice, with its sentiment, given the natural gender of a head (or dependent) noun. We find that there are significant differences between descriptions of male and female nouns and that these differences align with common gender stereotypes: Positive adjectives used to describe women are more often related to their bodies than adjectives used to describe men.
Given a small corpus D{\_}T pertaining to a limited set of focused topics, our goal is to train embeddings that accurately capture the sense of words in the topic in spite of the limited size of D{\_}T. These embeddings may be used in various tasks involving D{\_}T. A popular strategy in limited data settings is to adapt pretrained embeddings E trained on a large corpus. To correct for sense drift, fine-tuning, regularization, projection, and pivoting have been proposed recently. Among these, regularization informed by a word{'}s corpus frequency performed well, but we improve upon it using a new regularizer based on the stability of its cooccurrence with other words. However, a thorough comparison across ten topics, spanning three tasks, with standardized settings of hyper-parameters, reveals that even the best embedding adaptation strategies provide small gains beyond well-tuned baselines, which many earlier comparisons ignored. In a bold departure from adapting pretrained embeddings, we propose using D{\_}T to probe, attend to, and borrow fragments from any large, topic-rich source corpus (such as Wikipedia), which need not be the corpus used to pretrain embeddings. This step is made scalable and practical by suitable indexing. We reach the surprising conclusion that even limited corpus augmentation is more useful than adapting embeddings, which suggests that non-dominant sense information may be irrevocably obliterated from pretrained embeddings and cannot be salvaged by adaptation.
Lexical relations describe how meanings of terms relate to each other. Typical examples include hypernymy, synonymy, meronymy, etc. Automatic distinction of lexical relations is vital for NLP applications, and also challenging due to the lack of contextual signals to discriminate between such relations. In this work, we present a neural representation learning model to distinguish lexical relations among term pairs based on Hyperspherical Relation Embeddings (SphereRE). Rather than learning embeddings for individual terms, the model learns representations of relation triples by mapping them to the hyperspherical embedding space, where relation triples of different lexical relations are well separated. Experiments over several benchmarks confirm SphereRE outperforms state-of-the-arts.
In this work we approach the task of learning multilingual word representations in an offline manner by fitting a generative latent variable model to a multilingual dictionary. We model equivalent words in different languages as different views of the same word generated by a common latent variable representing their latent lexical meaning. We explore the task of alignment by querying the fitted model for multilingual embeddings achieving competitive results across a variety of tasks. The proposed model is robust to noise in the embedding space making it a suitable method for distributed representations learned from noisy corpora.
A longstanding debate in semiotics centers on the relationship between linguistic signs and their corresponding semantics: is there an arbitrary relationship between a word form and its meaning, or does some systematic phenomenon pervade? For instance, does the character bigram {`}gl{'} have any systematic relationship to the meaning of words like {`}glisten{'}, {`}gleam{'} and {`}glow{'}? In this work, we offer a holistic quantification of the systematicity of the sign using mutual information and recurrent neural networks. We employ these in a data-driven and massively multilingual approach to the question, examining 106 languages. We find a statistically significant reduction in entropy when modeling a word form conditioned on its semantic representation. Encouragingly, we also recover well-attested English examples of systematic affixes. We conclude with the meta-point: Our approximate effect size (measured in bits) is quite small{---}despite some amount of systematicity between form and meaning, an arbitrary relationship and its resulting benefits dominate human language.
A large percentage of computational tools are concentrated in a very small subset of the planet{'}s languages. Compounding the issue, many languages lack the high-quality linguistic annotation necessary for the construction of such tools with current machine learning methods. In this paper, we address both issues simultaneously: leveraging the high accuracy of English taggers and parsers, we project morphological information onto translations of the Bible in 26 varied test languages. Using an iterative discovery, constraint, and training process, we build inflectional lexica in the target languages. Through a combination of iteration, ensembling, and reranking, we see double-digit relative error reductions in lemmatization and morphological analysis over a strong initial system.
Morphological tagging is challenging for morphologically rich languages due to the large target space and the need for more training data to minimize model sparsity. Dialectal variants of morphologically rich languages suffer more as they tend to be more noisy and have less resources. In this paper we explore the use of multitask learning and adversarial training to address morphological richness and dialectal variations in the context of full morphological tagging. We use multitask learning for joint morphological modeling for the features within two dialects, and as a knowledge-transfer scheme for cross-dialectal modeling. We use adversarial training to learn dialect invariant features that can help the knowledge-transfer scheme from the high to low-resource variants. We work with two dialectal variants: Modern Standard Arabic (high-resource {``}dialect{'}{''}) and Egyptian Arabic (low-resource dialect) as a case study. Our models achieve state-of-the-art results for both. Furthermore, adversarial training provides more significant improvement when using smaller training datasets in particular.
The reordering model plays an important role in phrase-based statistical machine translation. However, there are few works that exploit the reordering information in neural machine translation. In this paper, we propose a reordering mechanism to learn the reordering embedding of a word based on its contextual information. These learned reordering embeddings are stacked together with self-attention networks to learn sentence representation for machine translation. The reordering mechanism can be easily integrated into both the encoder and the decoder in the Transformer translation system. Experimental results on WMT{'}14 English-to-German, NIST Chinese-to-English, and WAT Japanese-to-English translation tasks demonstrate that the proposed methods can significantly improve the performance of the Transformer.
We present a simple yet powerful data augmentation method for boosting Neural Machine Translation (NMT) performance by leveraging information retrieved from a Translation Memory (TM). We propose and test two methods for augmenting NMT training data with fuzzy TM matches. Tests on the DGT-TM data set for two language pairs show consistent and substantial improvements over a range of baseline systems. The results suggest that this method is promising for any translation environment in which a sizeable TM is available and a certain amount of repetition across translations is to be expected, especially considering its ease of implementation.
Transformer is the state-of-the-art model in recent machine translation evaluations. Two strands of research are promising to improve models of this kind: the first uses wide networks (a.k.a. Transformer-Big) and has been the de facto standard for development of the Transformer system, and the other uses deeper language representation but faces the difficulty arising from learning deep networks. Here, we continue the line of research on the latter. We claim that a truly deep Transformer model can surpass the Transformer-Big counterpart by 1) proper use of layer normalization and 2) a novel way of passing the combination of previous layers to the next. On WMT{'}16 English-German and NIST OpenMT{'}12 Chinese-English tasks, our deep system (30/25-layer encoder) outperforms the shallow Transformer-Big/Base baseline (6-layer encoder) by 0.4-2.4 BLEU points. As another bonus, the deep model is 1.6X smaller in size and 3X faster in training than Transformer-Big.
Users of machine translation systems may desire to obtain multiple candidates translated in different ways. In this work, we attempt to obtain diverse translations by using sentence codes to condition the sentence generation. We describe two methods to extract the codes, either with or without the help of syntax information. For diverse generation, we sample multiple candidates, each of which conditioned on a unique code. Experiments show that the sampled translations have much higher diversity scores when using reasonable sentence codes, where the translation quality is still on par with the baselines even under strong constraint imposed by the codes. In qualitative analysis, we show that our method is able to generate paraphrase translations with drastically different structures. The proposed approach can be easily adopted to existing translation systems as no modification to the model is required.
We present a simple new method where an emergent NMT system is used for simultaneously selecting training data and learning internal NMT representations. This is done in a self-supervised way without parallel data, in such a way that both tasks enhance each other during training. The method is language independent, introduces no additional hyper-parameters, and achieves BLEU scores of 29.21 (en2fr) and 27.36 (fr2en) on newstest2014 using English and French Wikipedia data for training.
Previous work on end-to-end translation from speech has primarily used frame-level features as speech representations, which creates longer, sparser sequences than text. We show that a naive method to create compressed phoneme-like speech representations is far more effective and efficient for translation than traditional frame-level speech features. Specifically, we generate phoneme labels for speech frames and average consecutive frames with the same label to create shorter, higher-level source sequences for translation. We see improvements of up to 5 BLEU on both our high and low resource language pairs, with a reduction in training time of 60{\%}. Our improvements hold across multiple data sizes and two language pairs.
We present the Visually Grounded Neural Syntax Learner (VG-NSL), an approach for learning syntactic representations and structures without any explicit supervision. The model learns by looking at natural images and reading paired captions. VG-NSL generates constituency parse trees of texts, recursively composes representations for constituents, and matches them with images. We define concreteness of constituents by their matching scores with images, and use it to guide the parsing of text. Experiments on the MSCOCO data set show that VG-NSL outperforms various unsupervised parsing approaches that do not use visual grounding, in terms of F1 scores against gold parse trees. We find that VGNSL is much more stable with respect to the choice of random initialization and the amount of training data. We also find that the concreteness acquired by VG-NSL correlates well with a similar measure defined by linguists. Finally, we also apply VG-NSL to multiple languages in the Multi30K data set, showing that our model consistently outperforms prior unsupervised approaches.
Advances in learning and representations have reinvigorated work that connects language to other modalities. A particularly exciting direction is Vision-and-Language Navigation(VLN), in which agents interpret natural language instructions and visual scenes to move through environments and reach goals. Despite recent progress, current research leaves unclear how much of a role language under-standing plays in this task, especially because dominant evaluation metrics have focused on goal completion rather than the sequence of actions corresponding to the instructions. Here, we highlight shortcomings of current metrics for the Room-to-Room dataset (Anderson et al.,2018b) and propose a new metric, Coverage weighted by Length Score (CLS). We also show that the existing paths in the dataset are not ideal for evaluating instruction following because they are direct-to-goal shortest paths. We join existing short paths to form more challenging extended paths to create a new data set, Room-for-Room (R4R). Using R4R and CLS, we show that agents that receive rewards for instruction fidelity outperform agents that focus on goal completion.
Describing images with text is a fundamental problem in vision-language research. Current studies in this domain mostly focus on single image captioning. However, in various real applications (e.g., image editing, difference interpretation, and retrieval), generating relational captions for two images, can also be very useful. This important problem has not been explored mostly due to lack of datasets and effective models. To push forward the research in this direction, we first introduce a new language-guided image editing dataset that contains a large number of real image pairs with corresponding editing instructions. We then propose a new relational speaker model based on an encoder-decoder architecture with static relational attention and sequential multi-head attention. We also extend the model with dynamic relational attention, which calculates visual alignment while decoding. Our models are evaluated on our newly collected and two public datasets consisting of image pairs annotated with relationship sentences. Experimental results, based on both automatic and human evaluation, demonstrate that our model outperforms all baselines and existing methods on all the datasets.
In this paper, we address a novel task, namely weakly-supervised spatio-temporally grounding natural sentence in video. Specifically, given a natural sentence and a video, we localize a spatio-temporal tube in the video that semantically corresponds to the given sentence, with no reliance on any spatio-temporal annotations during training. First, a set of spatio-temporal tubes, referred to as instances, are extracted from the video. We then encode these instances and the sentence using our newly proposed attentive interactor which can exploit their fine-grained relationships to characterize their matching behaviors. Besides a ranking loss, a novel diversity loss is introduced to train our attentive interactor to strengthen the matching behaviors of reliable instance-sentence pairs and penalize the unreliable ones. We also contribute a dataset, called VID-sentence, based on the ImageNet video object detection dataset, to serve as a benchmark for our task. Results from extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our model over the baseline approaches.
This paper introduces the PhotoBook dataset, a large-scale collection of visually-grounded, task-oriented dialogues in English designed to investigate shared dialogue history accumulating during conversation. Taking inspiration from seminal work on dialogue analysis, we propose a data-collection task formulated as a collaborative game prompting two online participants to refer to images utilising both their visual context as well as previously established referring expressions. We provide a detailed description of the task setup and a thorough analysis of the 2,500 dialogues collected. To further illustrate the novel features of the dataset, we propose a baseline model for reference resolution which uses a simple method to take into account shared information accumulated in a reference chain. Our results show that this information is particularly important to resolve later descriptions and underline the need to develop more sophisticated models of common ground in dialogue interaction.
Architecture search is the process of automatically learning the neural model or cell structure that best suits the given task. Recently, this approach has shown promising performance improvements (on language modeling and image classification) with reasonable training speed, using a weight sharing strategy called Efficient Neural Architecture Search (ENAS). In our work, we first introduce a novel continual architecture search (CAS) approach, so as to continually evolve the model parameters during the sequential training of several tasks, without losing performance on previously learned tasks (via block-sparsity and orthogonality constraints), thus enabling life-long learning. Next, we explore a multi-task architecture search (MAS) approach over ENAS for finding a unified, single cell structure that performs well across multiple tasks (via joint controller rewards), and hence allows more generalizable transfer of the cell structure knowledge to an unseen new task. We empirically show the effectiveness of our sequential continual learning and parallel multi-task learning based architecture search approaches on diverse sentence-pair classification tasks (GLUE) and multimodal-generation based video captioning tasks. Further, we present several ablations and analyses on the learned cell structures.
Supervised models of NLP rely on large collections of text which closely resemble the intended testing setting. Unfortunately matching text is often not available in sufficient quantity, and moreover, within any domain of text, data is often highly heterogenous. In this paper we propose a method to distill the important domain signal as part of a multi-domain learning system, using a latent variable model in which parts of a neural model are stochastically gated based on the inferred domain. We compare the use of discrete versus continuous latent variables, operating in a domain-supervised or a domain semi-supervised setting, where the domain is known only for a subset of training inputs. We show that our model leads to substantial performance improvements over competitive benchmark domain adaptation methods, including methods using adversarial learning.
Modern entity linking systems rely on large collections of documents specifically annotated for the task (e.g., AIDA CoNLL). In contrast, we propose an approach which exploits only naturally occurring information: unlabeled documents and Wikipedia. Our approach consists of two stages. First, we construct a high recall list of candidate entities for each mention in an unlabeled document. Second, we use the candidate lists as weak supervision to constrain our document-level entity linking model. The model treats entities as latent variables and, when estimated on a collection of unlabelled texts, learns to choose entities relying both on local context of each mention and on coherence with other entities in the document. The resulting approach rivals fully-supervised state-of-the-art systems on standard test sets. It also approaches their performance in the very challenging setting: when tested on a test set sampled from the data used to estimate the supervised systems. By comparing to Wikipedia-only training of our model, we demonstrate that modeling unlabeled documents is beneficial.
We consider the problem of learning to map from natural language instructions to state transitions (actions) in a data-efficient manner. Our method takes inspiration from the idea that it should be easier to ground language to concepts that have already been formed through pre-linguistic observation. We augment a baseline instruction-following learner with an initial environment-learning phase that uses observations of language-free state transitions to induce a suitable latent representation of actions before processing the instruction-following training data. We show that mapping to pre-learned representations substantially improves performance over systems whose representations are learned from limited instructional data alone.
Supervised models suffer from the problem of domain shifting where distribution mismatch in the data across domains greatly affect model performance. To solve the problem, training data selection (TDS) has been proven to be a prospective solution for domain adaptation in leveraging appropriate data. However, conventional TDS methods normally requires a predefined threshold which is neither easy to set nor can be applied across tasks, and models are trained separately with the TDS process. To make TDS self-adapted to data and task, and to combine it with model training, in this paper, we propose a reinforcement learning (RL) framework that synchronously searches for training instances relevant to the target domain and learns better representations for them. A selection distribution generator (SDG) is designed to perform the selection and is updated according to the rewards computed from the selected data, where a predictor is included in the framework to ensure a task-specific model can be trained on the selected data and provides feedback to rewards. Experimental results from part-of-speech tagging, dependency parsing, and sentiment analysis, as well as ablation studies, illustrate that the proposed framework is not only effective in data selection and representation, but also generalized to accommodate different NLP tasks.
Generating long and informative review text is a challenging natural language generation task. Previous work focuses on word-level generation, neglecting the importance of topical and syntactic characteristics from natural languages. In this paper, we propose a novel review generation model by characterizing an elaborately designed aspect-aware coarse-to-fine generation process. First, we model the aspect transitions to capture the overall content flow. Then, to generate a sentence, an aspect-aware sketch will be predicted using an aspect-aware decoder. Finally, another decoder fills in the semantic slots by generating corresponding words. Our approach is able to jointly utilize aspect semantics, syntactic sketch, and context information. Extensive experiments results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model.
We present a PaperRobot who performs as an automatic research assistant by (1) conducting deep understanding of a large collection of human-written papers in a target domain and constructing comprehensive background knowledge graphs (KGs); (2) creating new ideas by predicting links from the background KGs, by combining graph attention and contextual text attention; (3) incrementally writing some key elements of a new paper based on memory-attention networks: from the input title along with predicted related entities to generate a paper abstract, from the abstract to generate conclusion and future work, and finally from future work to generate a title for a follow-on paper. Turing Tests, where a biomedical domain expert is asked to compare a system output and a human-authored string, show PaperRobot generated abstracts, conclusion and future work sections, and new titles are chosen over human-written ones up to 30{\%}, 24{\%} and 12{\%} of the time, respectively.
Rhetoric is a vital element in modern poetry, and plays an essential role in improving its aesthetics. However, to date, it has not been considered in research on automatic poetry generation. In this paper, we propose a rhetorically controlled encoder-decoder for modern Chinese poetry generation. Our model relies on a continuous latent variable as a rhetoric controller to capture various rhetorical patterns in an encoder, and then incorporates rhetoric-based mixtures while generating modern Chinese poetry. For metaphor and personification, an automated evaluation shows that our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines by a substantial margin, while human evaluation shows that our model generates better poems than baseline methods in terms of fluency, coherence, meaningfulness, and rhetorical aesthetics.
Automatic topic-to-essay generation is a challenging task since it requires generating novel, diverse, and topic-consistent paragraph-level text with a set of topics as input. Previous work tends to perform essay generation based solely on the given topics while ignoring massive commonsense knowledge. However, this commonsense knowledge provides additional background information, which can help to generate essays that are more novel and diverse. Towards filling this gap, we propose to integrate commonsense from the external knowledge base into the generator through dynamic memory mechanism. Besides, the adversarial training based on a multi-label discriminator is employed to further improve topic-consistency. We also develop a series of automatic evaluation metrics to comprehensively assess the quality of the generated essay. Experiments show that with external commonsense knowledge and adversarial training, the generated essays are more novel, diverse, and topic-consistent than existing methods in terms of both automatic and human evaluation.
In this paper, we focus on the task of fine-grained text sentiment transfer (FGST). This task aims to revise an input sequence to satisfy a given sentiment intensity, while preserving the original semantic content. Different from the conventional sentiment transfer task that only reverses the sentiment polarity (positive/negative) of text, the FTST task requires more nuanced and fine-grained control of sentiment. To remedy this, we propose a novel Seq2SentiSeq model. Specifically, the numeric sentiment intensity value is incorporated into the decoder via a Gaussian kernel layer to finely control the sentiment intensity of the output. Moreover, to tackle the problem of lacking parallel data, we propose a cycle reinforcement learning algorithm to guide the model training. In this framework, the elaborately designed rewards can balance both sentiment transformation and content preservation, while not requiring any ground truth output. Experimental results show that our approach can outperform existing methods by a large margin in both automatic evaluation and human evaluation.
Recent approaches to data-to-text generation have shown great promise thanks to the use of large-scale datasets and the application of neural network architectures which are trained end-to-end. These models rely on representation learning to select content appropriately, structure it coherently, and verbalize it grammatically, treating entities as nothing more than vocabulary tokens. In this work we propose an entity-centric neural architecture for data-to-text generation. Our model creates entity-specific representations which are dynamically updated. Text is generated conditioned on the data input and entity memory representations using hierarchical attention at each time step. We present experiments on the RotoWire benchmark and a (five times larger) new dataset on the baseball domain which we create. Our results show that the proposed model outperforms competitive baselines in automatic and human evaluation.
A type description is a succinct noun compound which helps human and machines to quickly grasp the informative and distinctive information of an entity. Entities in most knowledge graphs (KGs) still lack such descriptions, thus calling for automatic methods to supplement such information. However, existing generative methods either overlook the grammatical structure or make factual mistakes in generated texts. To solve these problems, we propose a head-modifier template based method to ensure the readability and data fidelity of generated type descriptions. We also propose a new dataset and two metrics for this task. Experiments show that our method improves substantially compared with baselines and achieves state-of-the-art performance on both datasets.
Table-to-text generation aims to translate the structured data into the unstructured text. Most existing methods adopt the encoder-decoder framework to learn the transformation, which requires large-scale training samples. However, the lack of large parallel data is a major practical problem for many domains. In this work, we consider the scenario of low resource table-to-text generation, where only limited parallel data is available. We propose a novel model to separate the generation into two stages: key fact prediction and surface realization. It first predicts the key facts from the tables, and then generates the text with the key facts. The training of key fact prediction needs much fewer annotated data, while surface realization can be trained with pseudo parallel corpus. We evaluate our model on a biography generation dataset. Our model can achieve 27.34 BLEU score with only 1,000 parallel data, while the baseline model only obtain the performance of 9.71 BLEU score.
The paper presents a first attempt towards unsupervised neural text simplification that relies only on unlabeled text corpora. The core framework is composed of a shared encoder and a pair of attentional-decoders, crucially assisted by discrimination-based losses and denoising. The framework is trained using unlabeled text collected from en-Wikipedia dump. Our analysis (both quantitative and qualitative involving human evaluators) on public test data shows that the proposed model can perform text-simplification at both lexical and syntactic levels, competitive to existing supervised methods. It also outperforms viable unsupervised baselines. Adding a few labeled pairs helps improve the performance further.
We present a syntax-infused variational autoencoder (SIVAE), that integrates sentences with their syntactic trees to improve the grammar of generated sentences. Distinct from existing VAE-based text generative models, SIVAE contains two separate latent spaces, for sentences and syntactic trees. The evidence lower bound objective is redesigned correspondingly, by optimizing a joint distribution that accommodates two encoders and two decoders. SIVAE works with long short-term memory architectures to simultaneously generate sentences and syntactic trees. Two versions of SIVAE are proposed: one captures the dependencies between the latent variables through a conditional prior network, and the other treats the latent variables independently such that syntactically-controlled sentence generation can be performed. Experimental results demonstrate the generative superiority of SIVAE on both reconstruction and targeted syntactic evaluations. Finally, we show that the proposed models can be used for unsupervised paraphrasing given different syntactic tree templates.
Variational autoencoders (VAEs) have received much attention recently as an end-to-end architecture for text generation with latent variables. However, previous works typically focus on synthesizing relatively short sentences (up to 20 words), and the posterior collapse issue has been widely identified in text-VAEs. In this paper, we propose to leverage several multi-level structures to learn a VAE model for generating long, and coherent text. In particular, a hierarchy of stochastic layers between the encoder and decoder networks is employed to abstract more informative and semantic-rich latent codes. Besides, we utilize a multi-level decoder structure to capture the coherent long-term structure inherent in long-form texts, by generating intermediate sentence representations as high-level plan vectors. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed multi-level VAE model produces more coherent and less repetitive long text compared to baselines as well as can mitigate the posterior-collapse issue.
Semantic parsing aims to transform natural language (NL) utterances into formal meaning representations (MRs), whereas an NL generator achieves the reverse: producing an NL description for some given MRs. Despite this intrinsic connection, the two tasks are often studied separately in prior work. In this paper, we model the duality of these two tasks via a joint learning framework, and demonstrate its effectiveness of boosting the performance on both tasks. Concretely, we propose a novel method of dual information maximization (DIM) to regularize the learning process, where DIM empirically maximizes the variational lower bounds of expected joint distributions of NL and MRs. We further extend DIM to a semi-supervision setup (SemiDIM), which leverages unlabeled data of both tasks. Experiments on three datasets of dialogue management and code generation (and summarization) show that performance on both semantic parsing and NL generation can be consistently improved by DIM, in both supervised and semi-supervised setups.
We propose a data-to-text generation model with two modules, one for tracking and the other for text generation. Our tracking module selects and keeps track of salient information and memorizes which record has been mentioned. Our generation module generates a summary conditioned on the state of tracking module. Our proposed model is considered to simulate the human-like writing process that gradually selects the information by determining the intermediate variables while writing the summary. In addition, we also explore the effectiveness of the writer information for generations. Experimental results show that our proposed model outperforms existing models in all evaluation metrics even without writer information. Incorporating writer information further improves the performance, contributing to content planning and surface realization.
This paper investigates a new task named Conversational Question Generation (CQG) which is to generate a question based on a passage and a conversation history (i.e., previous turns of question-answer pairs). CQG is a crucial task for developing intelligent agents that can drive question-answering style conversations or test user understanding of a given passage. Towards that end, we propose a new approach named Reinforced Dynamic Reasoning network, which is based on the general encoder-decoder framework but incorporates a reasoning procedure in a dynamic manner to better understand what has been asked and what to ask next about the passage into the general encoder-decoder framework. To encourage producing meaningful questions, we leverage a popular question answering (QA) model to provide feedback and fine-tune the question generator using a reinforcement learning mechanism. Empirical results on the recently released CoQA dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in comparison with various baselines and model variants. Moreover, to show the applicability of our method, we also apply it to create multi-turn question-answering conversations for passages in SQuAD.
Currently, no large-scale training data is available for the task of scientific paper summarization. In this paper, we propose a novel method that automatically generates summaries for scientific papers, by utilizing videos of talks at scientific conferences. We hypothesize that such talks constitute a coherent and concise description of the papers{'} content, and can form the basis for good summaries. We collected 1716 papers and their corresponding videos, and created a dataset of paper summaries. A model trained on this dataset achieves similar performance as models trained on a dataset of summaries created manually. In addition, we validated the quality of our summaries by human experts.
Comprehensive document encoding and salient information selection are two major difficulties for generating summaries with adequate salient information. To tackle the above difficulties, we propose a Transformer-based encoder-decoder framework with two novel extensions for abstractive document summarization. Specifically, (1) to encode the documents comprehensively, we design a focus-attention mechanism and incorporate it into the encoder. This mechanism models a Gaussian focal bias on attention scores to enhance the perception of local context, which contributes to producing salient and informative summaries. (2) To distinguish salient information precisely, we design an independent saliency-selection network which manages the information flow from encoder to decoder. This network effectively reduces the influences of secondary information on the generated summaries. Experimental results on the popular CNN/Daily Mail benchmark demonstrate that our model outperforms other state-of-the-art baselines on the ROUGE metrics.
This paper focuses on the end-to-end abstractive summarization of a single product review without supervision. We assume that a review can be described as a discourse tree, in which the summary is the root, and the child sentences explain their parent in detail. By recursively estimating a parent from its children, our model learns the latent discourse tree without an external parser and generates a concise summary. We also introduce an architecture that ranks the importance of each sentence on the tree to support summary generation focusing on the main review point. The experimental results demonstrate that our model is competitive with or outperforms other unsupervised approaches. In particular, for relatively long reviews, it achieves a competitive or better performance than supervised models. The induced tree shows that the child sentences provide additional information about their parent, and the generated summary abstracts the entire review.
The success of neural summarization models stems from the meticulous encodings of source articles. To overcome the impediments of limited and sometimes noisy training data, one promising direction is to make better use of the available training data by applying filters during summarization. In this paper, we propose a novel Bi-directional Selective Encoding with Template (BiSET) model, which leverages template discovered from training data to softly select key information from each source article to guide its summarization process. Extensive experiments on a standard summarization dataset are conducted and the results show that the template-equipped BiSET model manages to improve the summarization performance significantly with a new state of the art.
Generating keyphrases that summarize the main points of a document is a fundamental task in natural language processing. Although existing generative models are capable of predicting multiple keyphrases for an input document as well as determining the number of keyphrases to generate, they still suffer from the problem of generating too few keyphrases. To address this problem, we propose a reinforcement learning (RL) approach for keyphrase generation, with an adaptive reward function that encourages a model to generate both sufficient and accurate keyphrases. Furthermore, we introduce a new evaluation method that incorporates name variations of the ground-truth keyphrases using the Wikipedia knowledge base. Thus, our evaluation method can more robustly evaluate the quality of predicted keyphrases. Extensive experiments on five real-world datasets of different scales demonstrate that our RL approach consistently and significantly improves the performance of the state-of-the-art generative models with both conventional and new evaluation methods.
When writing a summary, humans tend to choose content from one or two sentences and merge them into a single summary sentence. However, the mechanisms behind the selection of one or multiple source sentences remain poorly understood. Sentence fusion assumes multi-sentence input; yet sentence selection methods only work with single sentences and not combinations of them. There is thus a crucial gap between sentence selection and fusion to support summarizing by both compressing single sentences and fusing pairs. This paper attempts to bridge the gap by ranking sentence singletons and pairs together in a unified space. Our proposed framework attempts to model human methodology by selecting either a single sentence or a pair of sentences, then compressing or fusing the sentence(s) to produce a summary sentence. We conduct extensive experiments on both single- and multi-document summarization datasets and report findings on sentence selection and abstraction.
Transcripts of natural, multi-person meetings differ significantly from documents like news articles, which can make Natural Language Generation models for generating summaries unfocused. We develop an abstractive meeting summarizer from both videos and audios of meeting recordings. Specifically, we propose a multi-modal hierarchical attention across three levels: segment, utterance and word. To narrow down the focus into topically-relevant segments, we jointly model topic segmentation and summarization. In addition to traditional text features, we introduce new multi-modal features derived from visual focus of attention, based on the assumption that the utterance is more important if the speaker receives more attention. Experiments show that our model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art with both BLEU and ROUGE measures.
A common issue in training a deep learning, abstractive summarization model is lack of a large set of training summaries. This paper examines techniques for adapting from a labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain in the context of an encoder-decoder model for text generation. In addition to adversarial domain adaptation (ADA), we introduce the use of artificial titles and sequential training to capture the grammatical style of the unlabeled target domain. Evaluation on adapting to/from news articles and Stack Exchange posts indicates that the use of these techniques can boost performance for both unsupervised adaptation as well as fine-tuning with limited target data.
Most existing text summarization datasets are compiled from the news domain, where summaries have a flattened discourse structure. In such datasets, summary-worthy content often appears in the beginning of input articles. Moreover, large segments from input articles are present verbatim in their respective summaries. These issues impede the learning and evaluation of systems that can understand an article{'}s global content structure as well as produce abstractive summaries with high compression ratio. In this work, we present a novel dataset, BIGPATENT, consisting of 1.3 million records of U.S. patent documents along with human written abstractive summaries. Compared to existing summarization datasets, BIGPATENT has the following properties: i) summaries contain a richer discourse structure with more recurring entities, ii) salient content is evenly distributed in the input, and iii) lesser and shorter extractive fragments are present in the summaries. Finally, we train and evaluate baselines and popular learning models on BIGPATENT to shed light on new challenges and motivate future directions for summarization research.
While recent progress on abstractive summarization has led to remarkably fluent summaries, factual errors in generated summaries still severely limit their use in practice. In this paper, we evaluate summaries produced by state-of-the-art models via crowdsourcing and show that such errors occur frequently, in particular with more abstractive models. We study whether textual entailment predictions can be used to detect such errors and if they can be reduced by reranking alternative predicted summaries. That leads to an interesting downstream application for entailment models. In our experiments, we find that out-of-the-box entailment models trained on NLI datasets do not yet offer the desired performance for the downstream task and we therefore release our annotations as additional test data for future extrinsic evaluations of NLI.
Existing models for extractive summarization are usually trained from scratch with a cross-entropy loss, which does not explicitly capture the global context at the document level. In this paper, we aim to improve this task by introducing three auxiliary pre-training tasks that learn to capture the document-level context in a self-supervised fashion. Experiments on the widely-used CNN/DM dataset validate the effectiveness of the proposed auxiliary tasks. Furthermore, we show that after pre-training, a clean model with simple building blocks is able to outperform previous state-of-the-art that are carefully designed.
Question understanding is one of the main challenges in question answering. In real world applications, users often submit natural language questions that are longer than needed and include peripheral information that increases the complexity of the question, leading to substantially more false positives in answer retrieval. In this paper, we study neural abstractive models for medical question summarization. We introduce the MeQSum corpus of 1,000 summarized consumer health questions. We explore data augmentation methods and evaluate state-of-the-art neural abstractive models on this new task. In particular, we show that semantic augmentation from question datasets improves the overall performance, and that pointer-generator networks outperform sequence-to-sequence attentional models on this task, with a ROUGE-1 score of 44.16{\%}. We also present a detailed error analysis and discuss directions for improvement that are specific to question summarization.
Multi-sentence compression (MSC) aims to generate a grammatical but reduced compression from multiple input sentences while retaining their key information. Previous dominating approach for MSC is the extraction-based word graph approach. A few variants further leveraged lexical substitution to yield more abstractive compression. However, two limitations exist. First, the word graph approach that simply concatenates fragments from multiple sentences may yield non-fluent or ungrammatical compression. Second, lexical substitution is often inappropriate without the consideration of context information. To tackle the above-mentioned issues, we present a neural rewriter for multi-sentence compression that does not need any parallel corpus. Empirical studies have shown that our approach achieves comparable results upon automatic evaluation and improves the grammaticality of compression based on human evaluation. A parallel corpus with more than 140,000 (sentence group, compression) pairs is also constructed as a by-product for future research.
This paper focuses on the topic of inferential machine comprehension, which aims to fully understand the meanings of given text to answer generic questions, especially the ones needed reasoning skills. In particular, we first encode the given document, question and options in a context aware way. We then propose a new network to solve the inference problem by decomposing it into a series of attention-based reasoning steps. The result of the previous step acts as the context of next step. To make each step can be directly inferred from the text, we design an operational cell with prior structure. By recursively linking the cells, the inferred results are synthesized together to form the evidence chain for reasoning, where the reasoning direction can be guided by imposing structural constraints to regulate interactions on the cells. Moreover, a termination mechanism is introduced to dynamically determine the uncertain reasoning depth, and the network is trained by reinforcement learning. Experimental results on 3 popular data sets, including MCTest, RACE and MultiRC, demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Multi-passage reading comprehension requires the ability to combine cross-passage information and reason over multiple passages to infer the answer. In this paper, we introduce the Dynamic Self-attention Network (DynSAN) for multi-passage reading comprehension task, which processes cross-passage information at token-level and meanwhile avoids substantial computational costs. The core module of the dynamic self-attention is a proposed gated token selection mechanism, which dynamically selects important tokens from a sequence. These chosen tokens will attend to each other via a self-attention mechanism to model long-range dependencies. Besides, convolutional layers are combined with the dynamic self-attention to enhance the model{'}s capacity of extracting local semantic. The experimental results show that the proposed DynSAN achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the SearchQA, Quasar-T and WikiHop datasets. Further ablation study also validates the effectiveness of our model components.
To bridge the gap between Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) models and human beings, which is mainly reflected in the hunger for data and the robustness to noise, in this paper, we explore how to integrate the neural networks of MRC models with the general knowledge of human beings. On the one hand, we propose a data enrichment method, which uses WordNet to extract inter-word semantic connections as general knowledge from each given passage-question pair. On the other hand, we propose an end-to-end MRC model named as Knowledge Aided Reader (KAR), which explicitly uses the above extracted general knowledge to assist its attention mechanisms. Based on the data enrichment method, KAR is comparable in performance with the state-of-the-art MRC models, and significantly more robust to noise than them. When only a subset (20{\%}-80{\%}) of the training examples are available, KAR outperforms the state-of-the-art MRC models by a large margin, and is still reasonably robust to noise.
This study tackles generative reading comprehension (RC), which consists of answering questions based on textual evidence and natural language generation (NLG). We propose a multi-style abstractive summarization model for question answering, called Masque. The proposed model has two key characteristics. First, unlike most studies on RC that have focused on extracting an answer span from the provided passages, our model instead focuses on generating a summary from the question and multiple passages. This serves to cover various answer styles required for real-world applications. Second, whereas previous studies built a specific model for each answer style because of the difficulty of acquiring one general model, our approach learns multi-style answers within a model to improve the NLG capability for all styles involved. This also enables our model to give an answer in the target style. Experiments show that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance on the Q{\&}A task and the Q{\&}A + NLG task of MS MARCO 2.1 and the summary task of NarrativeQA. We observe that the transfer of the style-independent NLG capability to the target style is the key to its success.
This paper considers the reading comprehension task in which multiple documents are given as input. Prior work has shown that a pipeline of retriever, reader, and reranker can improve the overall performance. However, the pipeline system is inefficient since the input is re-encoded within each module, and is unable to leverage upstream components to help downstream training. In this work, we present RE$^3$QA, a unified question answering model that combines context retrieving, reading comprehension, and answer reranking to predict the final answer. Unlike previous pipelined approaches, RE$^3$QA shares contextualized text representation across different components, and is carefully designed to use high-quality upstream outputs (e.g., retrieved context or candidate answers) for directly supervising downstream modules (e.g., the reader or the reranker). As a result, the whole network can be trained end-to-end to avoid the context inconsistency problem. Experiments show that our model outperforms the pipelined baseline and achieves state-of-the-art results on two versions of TriviaQA and two variants of SQuAD.
This paper is concerned with the task of multi-hop open-domain Question Answering (QA). This task is particularly challenging since it requires the simultaneous performance of textual reasoning and efficient searching. We present a method for retrieving multiple supporting paragraphs, nested amidst a large knowledge base, which contain the necessary evidence to answer a given question. Our method iteratively retrieves supporting paragraphs by forming a joint vector representation of both a question and a paragraph. The retrieval is performed by considering contextualized sentence-level representations of the paragraphs in the knowledge source. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance over two well-known datasets, SQuAD-Open and HotpotQA, which serve as our single- and multi-hop open-domain QA benchmarks, respectively.
Conversational machine reading systems help users answer high-level questions (e.g. determine if they qualify for particular government benefits) when they do not know the exact rules by which the determination is made (e.g. whether they need certain income levels or veteran status). The key challenge is that these rules are only provided in the form of a procedural text (e.g. guidelines from government website) which the system must read to figure out what to ask the user. We present a new conversational machine reading model that jointly extracts a set of decision rules from the procedural text while reasoning about which are entailed by the conversational history and which still need to be edited to create questions for the user. On the recently introduced ShARC conversational machine reading dataset, our Entailment-driven Extract and Edit network (E3) achieves a new state-of-the-art, outperforming existing systems as well as a new BERT-based baseline. In addition, by explicitly highlighting which information still needs to be gathered, E3 provides a more explainable alternative to prior work. We release source code for our models and experiments at https://github.com/vzhong/e3.
The process of knowledge acquisition can be viewed as a question-answer game between a student and a teacher in which the student typically starts by asking broad, open-ended questions before drilling down into specifics (Hintikka, 1981; Hakkarainen and Sintonen, 2002). This pedagogical perspective motivates a new way of representing documents. In this paper, we present SQUASH (Specificity-controlled Question-Answer Hierarchies), a novel and challenging text generation task that converts an input document into a hierarchy of question-answer pairs. Users can click on high-level questions (e.g., {``}Why did Frodo leave the Fellowship?{''}) to reveal related but more specific questions (e.g., {``}Who did Frodo leave with?{''}). Using a question taxonomy loosely based on Lehnert (1978), we classify questions in existing reading comprehension datasets as either GENERAL or SPECIFIC . We then use these labels as input to a pipelined system centered around a conditional neural language model. We extensively evaluate the quality of the generated QA hierarchies through crowdsourced experiments and report strong empirical results.
Question answering (QA) using textual sources for purposes such as reading comprehension (RC) has attracted much attention. This study focuses on the task of explainable multi-hop QA, which requires the system to return the answer with evidence sentences by reasoning and gathering disjoint pieces of the reference texts. It proposes the Query Focused Extractor (QFE) model for evidence extraction and uses multi-task learning with the QA model. QFE is inspired by extractive summarization models; compared with the existing method, which extracts each evidence sentence independently, it sequentially extracts evidence sentences by using an RNN with an attention mechanism on the question sentence. It enables QFE to consider the dependency among the evidence sentences and cover important information in the question sentence. Experimental results show that QFE with a simple RC baseline model achieves a state-of-the-art evidence extraction score on HotpotQA. Although designed for RC, it also achieves a state-of-the-art evidence extraction score on FEVER, which is a recognizing textual entailment task on a large textual database.
Machine reading comprehension (MRC) is a crucial and challenging task in NLP. Recently, pre-trained language models (LMs), especially BERT, have achieved remarkable success, presenting new state-of-the-art results in MRC. In this work, we investigate the potential of leveraging external knowledge bases (KBs) to further improve BERT for MRC. We introduce KT-NET, which employs an attention mechanism to adaptively select desired knowledge from KBs, and then fuses selected knowledge with BERT to enable context- and knowledge-aware predictions. We believe this would combine the merits of both deep LMs and curated KBs towards better MRC. Experimental results indicate that KT-NET offers significant and consistent improvements over BERT, outperforming competitive baselines on ReCoRD and SQuAD1.1 benchmarks. Notably, it ranks the 1st place on the ReCoRD leaderboard, and is also the best single model on the SQuAD1.1 leaderboard at the time of submission (March 4th, 2019).
Open-domain question answering (OpenQA) aims to answer questions through text retrieval and reading comprehension. Recently, lots of neural network-based models have been proposed and achieved promising results in OpenQA. However, the success of these models relies on a massive volume of training data (usually in English), which is not available in many other languages, especially for those low-resource languages. Therefore, it is essential to investigate cross-lingual OpenQA. In this paper, we construct a novel dataset XQA for cross-lingual OpenQA research. It consists of a training set in English as well as development and test sets in eight other languages. Besides, we provide several baseline systems for cross-lingual OpenQA, including two machine translation-based methods and one zero-shot cross-lingual method (multilingual BERT). Experimental results show that the multilingual BERT model achieves the best results in almost all target languages, while the performance of cross-lingual OpenQA is still much lower than that of English. Our analysis indicates that the performance of cross-lingual OpenQA is related to not only how similar the target language and English are, but also how difficult the question set of the target language is. The XQA dataset is publicly available at http://github.com/thunlp/XQA.
We study a formalization of the grammar induction problem that models sentences as being generated by a compound probabilistic context free grammar. In contrast to traditional formulations which learn a single stochastic grammar, our context-free rule probabilities are modulated by a per-sentence continuous latent variable, which induces marginal dependencies beyond the traditional context-free assumptions. Inference in this context-dependent grammar is performed by collapsed variational inference, in which an amortized variational posterior is placed on the continuous variable, and the latent trees are marginalized with dynamic programming. Experiments on English and Chinese show the effectiveness of our approach compared to recent state-of-the-art methods for grammar induction from words with neural language models.
During the past decades, due to the lack of sufficient labeled data, most studies on cross-domain parsing focus on unsupervised domain adaptation, assuming there is no target-domain training data. However, unsupervised approaches make limited progress so far due to the intrinsic difficulty of both domain adaptation and parsing. This paper tackles the semi-supervised domain adaptation problem for Chinese dependency parsing, based on two newly-annotated large-scale domain-aware datasets. We propose a simple domain embedding approach to merge the source- and target-domain training data, which is shown to be more effective than both direct corpus concatenation and multi-task learning. In order to utilize unlabeled target-domain data, we employ the recent contextualized word representations and show that a simple fine-tuning procedure can further boost cross-domain parsing accuracy by large margin.
Head-driven phrase structure grammar (HPSG) enjoys a uniform formalism representing rich contextual syntactic and even semantic meanings. This paper makes the first attempt to formulate a simplified HPSG by integrating constituent and dependency formal representations into head-driven phrase structure. Then two parsing algorithms are respectively proposed for two converted tree representations, division span and joint span. As HPSG encodes both constituent and dependency structure information, the proposed HPSG parsers may be regarded as a sort of joint decoder for both types of structures and thus are evaluated in terms of extracted or converted constituent and dependency parsing trees. Our parser achieves new state-of-the-art performance for both parsing tasks on Penn Treebank (PTB) and Chinese Penn Treebank, verifying the effectiveness of joint learning constituent and dependency structures. In details, we report 95.84 F1 of constituent parsing and 97.00{\%} UAS of dependency parsing on PTB.
In this work, we explore the way to perform named entity recognition (NER) using only unlabeled data and named entity dictionaries. To this end, we formulate the task as a positive-unlabeled (PU) learning problem and accordingly propose a novel PU learning algorithm to perform the task. We prove that the proposed algorithm can unbiasedly and consistently estimate the task loss as if there is fully labeled data. A key feature of the proposed method is that it does not require the dictionaries to label every entity within a sentence, and it even does not require the dictionaries to label all of the words constituting an entity. This greatly reduces the requirement on the quality of the dictionaries and makes our method generalize well with quite simple dictionaries. Empirical studies on four public NER datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. We have published the source code at \url{https://github.com/v-mipeng/LexiconNER}.
Current state-of-the-art systems for sequence labeling are typically based on the family of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). However, the shallow connections between consecutive hidden states of RNNs and insufficient modeling of global information restrict the potential performance of those models. In this paper, we try to address these issues, and thus propose a Global Context enhanced Deep Transition architecture for sequence labeling named GCDT. We deepen the state transition path at each position in a sentence, and further assign every token with a global representation learned from the entire sentence. Experiments on two standard sequence labeling tasks show that, given only training data and the ubiquitous word embeddings (Glove), our GCDT achieves 91.96 F1 on the CoNLL03 NER task and 95.43 F1 on the CoNLL2000 Chunking task, which outperforms the best reported results under the same settings. Furthermore, by leveraging BERT as an additional resource, we establish new state-of-the-art results with 93.47 F1 on NER and 97.30 F1 on Chunking.
Unsupervised PCFG inducers hypothesize sets of compact context-free rules as explanations for sentences. PCFG induction not only provides tools for low-resource languages, but also plays an important role in modeling language acquisition (Bannard et al., 2009; Abend et al. 2017). However, current PCFG induction models, using word tokens as input, are unable to incorporate semantics and morphology into induction, and may encounter issues of sparse vocabulary when facing morphologically rich languages. This paper describes a neural PCFG inducer which employs context embeddings (Peters et al., 2018) in a normalizing flow model (Dinh et al., 2015) to extend PCFG induction to use semantic and morphological information. Linguistically motivated sparsity and categorical distance constraints are imposed on the inducer as regularization. Experiments show that the PCFG induction model with normalizing flow produces grammars with state-of-the-art accuracy on a variety of different languages. Ablation further shows a positive effect of normalizing flow, context embeddings and proposed regularizers.
In unsupervised grammar induction, data likelihood is known to be only weakly correlated with parsing accuracy, especially at convergence after multiple runs. In order to find a better indicator for quality of induced grammars, this paper correlates several linguistically- and psycholinguistically-motivated predictors to parsing accuracy on a large multilingual grammar induction evaluation data set. Results show that variance of average surprisal (VAS) better correlates with parsing accuracy than data likelihood and that using VAS instead of data likelihood for model selection provides a significant accuracy boost. Further evidence shows VAS to be a better candidate than data likelihood for predicting word order typology classification. Analyses show that VAS seems to separate content words from function words in natural language grammars, and to better arrange words with different frequencies into separate classes that are more consistent with linguistic theory.
Due to limitation of labeled resources, cross-domain named entity recognition (NER) has been a challenging task. Most existing work considers a supervised setting, making use of labeled data for both the source and target domains. A disadvantage of such methods is that they cannot train for domains without NER data. To address this issue, we consider using cross-domain LM as a bridge cross-domains for NER domain adaptation, performing cross-domain and cross-task knowledge transfer by designing a novel parameter generation network. Results show that our method can effectively extract domain differences from cross-domain LM contrast, allowing unsupervised domain adaptation while also giving state-of-the-art results among supervised domain adaptation methods.
We investigate the problem of efficiently incorporating high-order features into neural graph-based dependency parsing. Instead of explicitly extracting high-order features from intermediate parse trees, we develop a more powerful dependency tree node representation which captures high-order information concisely and efficiently. We use graph neural networks (GNNs) to learn the representations and discuss several new configurations of GNN{'}s updating and aggregation functions. Experiments on PTB show that our parser achieves the best UAS and LAS on PTB (96.0{\%}, 94.3{\%}) among systems without using any external resources.
Minimalist Grammars (Stabler, 1997) are a computationally oriented, and rigorous formalisation of many aspects of Chomsky{'}s (1995) Minimalist Program. This paper presents the first ever application of this formalism to the task of realistic wide-coverage parsing. The parser uses a linguistically expressive yet highly constrained grammar, together with an adaptation of the A* search algorithm currently used in CCG parsing (Lewis and Steedman, 2014; Lewis et al., 2016), with supertag probabilities provided by a bi-LSTM neural network supertagger trained on MGbank, a corpus of MG derivation trees. We report on some promising initial experimental results for overall dependency recovery as well as on the recovery of certain unbounded long distance dependencies. Finally, although like other MG parsers, ours has a high order polynomial worst case time complexity, we show that in practice its expected time complexity is cubic in the length of the sentence. The parser is publicly available.
Sarcasm is a subtle form of language in which people express the opposite of what is implied. Previous works of sarcasm detection focused on texts. However, more and more social media platforms like Twitter allow users to create multi-modal messages, including texts, images, and videos. It is insufficient to detect sarcasm from multi-model messages based only on texts. In this paper, we focus on multi-modal sarcasm detection for tweets consisting of texts and images in Twitter. We treat text features, image features and image attributes as three modalities and propose a multi-modal hierarchical fusion model to address this task. Our model first extracts image features and attribute features, and then leverages attribute features and bidirectional LSTM network to extract text features. Features of three modalities are then reconstructed and fused into one feature vector for prediction. We create a multi-modal sarcasm detection dataset based on Twitter. Evaluation results on the dataset demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed model and the usefulness of the three modalities.
A huge volume of user-generated content is daily produced on social media. To facilitate automatic language understanding, we study keyphrase prediction, distilling salient information from massive posts. While most existing methods extract words from source posts to form keyphrases, we propose a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) based neural keyphrase generation framework, enabling absent keyphrases to be created. Moreover, our model, being topic-aware, allows joint modeling of corpus-level latent topic representations, which helps alleviate data sparsity widely exhibited in social media language. Experiments on three datasets collected from English and Chinese social media platforms show that our model significantly outperforms both extraction and generation models without exploiting latent topics. Further discussions show that our model learns meaningful topics, which interprets its superiority in social media keyphrase generation.
The availability of large-scale online social data, coupled with computational methods can help us answer fundamental questions relat- ing to our social lives, particularly our health and well-being. The {\#}MeToo trend has led to people talking about personal experiences of harassment more openly. This work at- tempts to aggregate such experiences of sex- ual abuse to facilitate a better understanding of social media constructs and to bring about social change. It has been found that disclo- sure of abuse has positive psychological im- pacts. Hence, we contend that such informa- tion can leveraged to create better campaigns for social change by analyzing how users react to these stories and to obtain a better insight into the consequences of sexual abuse. We use a three part Twitter-Specific Social Media Lan- guage Model to segregate personal recollec- tions of sexual harassment from Twitter posts. An extensive comparison with state-of-the-art generic and specific models along with a de- tailed error analysis explores the merit of our proposed model.
While contextualized word representations have improved state-of-the-art benchmarks in many NLP tasks, their potential usefulness for social-oriented tasks remains largely unexplored. We show how contextualized word embeddings can be used to capture affect dimensions in portrayals of people. We evaluate our methodology quantitatively, on held-out affect lexicons, and qualitatively, through case examples. We find that contextualized word representations do encode meaningful affect information, but they are heavily biased towards their training data, which limits their usefulness to in-domain analyses. We ultimately use our method to examine differences in portrayals of men and women.
Claim verification is generally a task of verifying the veracity of a given claim, which is critical to many downstream applications. It is cumbersome and inefficient for human fact-checkers to find consistent pieces of evidence, from which solid verdict could be inferred against the claim. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end hierarchical attention network focusing on learning to represent coherent evidence as well as their semantic relatedness with the claim. Our model consists of three main components: 1) A coherence-based attention layer embeds coherent evidence considering the claim and sentences from relevant articles; 2) An entailment-based attention layer attends on sentences that can semantically infer the claim on top of the first attention; and 3) An output layer predicts the verdict based on the embedded evidence. Experimental results on three public benchmark datasets show that our proposed model outperforms a set of state-of-the-art baselines.
The activities we do are linked to our interests, personality, political preferences, and decisions we make about the future. In this paper, we explore the task of predicting human activities from user-generated content. We collect a dataset containing instances of social media users writing about a range of everyday activities. We then use a state-of-the-art sentence embedding framework tailored to recognize the semantics of human activities and perform an automatic clustering of these activities. We train a neural network model to make predictions about which clusters contain activities that were performed by a given user based on the text of their previous posts and self-description. Additionally, we explore the degree to which incorporating inferred user traits into our model helps with this prediction task.
Inspired by Labov{'}s seminal work on stylisticvariation as a function of social stratification,we develop and compare neural models thatpredict a person{'}s presumed socio-economicstatus, obtained through distant supervision,from their writing style on social media. Thefocus of our work is on identifying the mostimportant stylistic parameters to predict socio-economic group. In particular, we show theeffectiveness of morpho-syntactic features aspredictors of style, in contrast to lexical fea-tures, which are good predictors of topic
Identifying the political perspective shaping the way news events are discussed in the media is an important and challenging task. In this paper, we highlight the importance of contextualizing social information, capturing how this information is disseminated in social networks. We use Graph Convolutional Networks, a recently proposed neural architecture for representing relational information, to capture the documents{'} social context. We show that social information can be used effectively as a source of distant supervision, and when direct supervision is available, even little social information can significantly improve performance.
This paper presents computational approaches for automatically detecting critical plot twists in reviews of media products. First, we created a large-scale book review dataset that includes fine-grained spoiler annotations at the sentence-level, as well as book and (anonymized) user information. Second, we carefully analyzed this dataset, and found that: spoiler language tends to be book-specific; spoiler distributions vary greatly across books and review authors; and spoiler sentences tend to jointly appear in the latter part of reviews. Third, inspired by these findings, we developed an end-to-end neural network architecture to detect spoiler sentences in review corpora. Quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate that the proposed method substantially outperforms existing baselines.
Celebrities are among the most prolific users of social media, promoting their personas and rallying followers. This activity is closely tied to genuine writing samples, which makes them worthy research subjects in many respects, not least profiling. With this paper we introduce the Webis Celebrity Corpus 2019. For its construction the Twitter feeds of 71,706 verified accounts have been carefully linked with their respective Wikidata items, crawling both. After cleansing, the resulting profiles contain an average of 29,968 words per profile and up to 239 pieces of personal information. A cross-evaluation that checked the correct association of Twitter account and Wikidata item revealed an error rate of only 0.6{\%}, rendering the profiles highly reliable. Our corpus comprises a wide cross-section of local and global celebrities, forming a unique combination of scale, profile comprehensiveness, and label reliability. We further establish the state of the art{'}s profiling performance by evaluating the winning approaches submitted to the PAN gender prediction tasks in a transfer learning experiment. They are only outperformed by our own deep learning approach, which we also use to exemplify celebrity occupation prediction for the first time.
Ranking comments on an online news service is a practically important task for the service provider, and thus there have been many studies on this task. However, most of them considered users{'} positive feedback, such as {``}Like{''}-button clicks, as a quality measure. In this paper, we address directly evaluating the quality of comments on the basis of {``}constructiveness,{''} separately from user feedback. To this end, we create a new dataset including 100K+ Japanese comments with constructiveness scores (C-scores). Our experiments clarify that C-scores are not always related to users{'} positive feedback, and the performance of pairwise ranking models tends to be enhanced by the variation of comments rather than articles.
Accompanied by modern industrial developments, air pollution has already become a major concern for human health. Hence, air quality measures, such as the concentration of PM2.5, have attracted increasing attention. Even some studies apply historical measurements into air quality forecast, the changes of air quality conditions are still hard to monitor. In this paper, we propose to exploit social media and natural language processing techniques to enhance air quality prediction. Social media users are treated as social sensors with their findings and locations. After filtering noisy tweets using word selection and topic modeling, a deep learning model based on convolutional neural networks and over-tweet-pooling is proposed to enhance air quality prediction. We conduct experiments on 7-month real-world Twitter datasets in the five most heavily polluted states in the USA. The results show that our approach significantly improves air quality prediction over the baseline that does not use social media by 6.9{\%} to 17.7{\%} in macro-F1 scores.
In this paper, we investigate the importance of social network information compared to content information in the prediction of a Twitter user{'}s occupational class. We show that the content information of a user{'}s tweets, the profile descriptions of a user{'}s follower/following community, and the user{'}s social network provide useful information for classifying a user{'}s occupational group. In our study, we extend an existing data set for this problem, and we achieve significantly better performance by using social network homophily that has not been fully exploited in previous work. In our analysis, we found that by using the graph convolutional network to exploit social homophily, we can achieve competitive performance on this data set with just a small fraction of the training data.
Domain adaptation is an essential task in dialog system building because there are so many new dialog tasks created for different needs every day. Collecting and annotating training data for these new tasks is costly since it involves real user interactions. We propose a domain adaptive dialog generation method based on meta-learning (DAML). DAML is an end-to-end trainable dialog system model that learns from multiple rich-resource tasks and then adapts to new domains with minimal training samples. We train a dialog system model using multiple rich-resource single-domain dialog data by applying the model-agnostic meta-learning algorithm to dialog domain. The model is capable of learning a competitive dialog system on a new domain with only a few training examples in an efficient manner. The two-step gradient updates in DAML enable the model to learn general features across multiple tasks. We evaluate our method on a simulated dialog dataset and achieve state-of-the-art performance, which is generalizable to new tasks.
Writers often rely on plans or sketches to write long stories, but most current language models generate word by word from left to right. We explore coarse-to-fine models for creating narrative texts of several hundred words, and introduce new models which decompose stories by abstracting over actions and entities. The model first generates the predicate-argument structure of the text, where different mentions of the same entity are marked with placeholder tokens. It then generates a surface realization of the predicate-argument structure, and finally replaces the entity placeholders with context-sensitive names and references. Human judges prefer the stories from our models to a wide range of previous approaches to hierarchical text generation. Extensive analysis shows that our methods can help improve the diversity and coherence of events and entities in generated stories.
Automatic argument generation is an appealing but challenging task. In this paper, we study the specific problem of counter-argument generation, and present a novel framework, CANDELA. It consists of a powerful retrieval system and a novel two-step generation model, where a text planning decoder first decides on the main talking points and a proper language style for each sentence, then a content realization decoder reflects the decisions and constructs an informative paragraph-level argument. Furthermore, our generation model is empowered by a retrieval system indexed with 12 million articles collected from Wikipedia and popular English news media, which provides access to high-quality content with diversity. Automatic evaluation on a large-scale dataset collected from Reddit shows that our model yields significantly higher BLEU, ROUGE, and METEOR scores than the state-of-the-art and non-trivial comparisons. Human evaluation further indicates that our system arguments are more appropriate for refutation and richer in content.
Recent neural language generation systems often \textit{hallucinate} contents (i.e., producing irrelevant or contradicted facts), especially when trained on loosely corresponding pairs of the input structure and text. To mitigate this issue, we propose to integrate a language understanding module for data refinement with self-training iterations to effectively induce strong equivalence between the input data and the paired text. Experiments on the E2E challenge dataset show that our proposed framework can reduce more than 50{\%} relative unaligned noise from the original data-text pairs. A vanilla sequence-to-sequence neural NLG model trained on the refined data has improved on content correctness compared with the current state-of-the-art ensemble generator.
Automatic commenting of online articles can provide additional opinions and facts to the reader, which improves user experience and engagement on social media platforms. Previous work focuses on automatic commenting based solely on textual content. However, in real-scenarios, online articles usually contain multiple modal contents. For instance, graphic news contains plenty of images in addition to text. Contents other than text are also vital because they are not only more attractive to the reader but also may provide critical information. To remedy this, we propose a new task: cross-model automatic commenting (CMAC), which aims to make comments by integrating multiple modal contents. We construct a large-scale dataset for this task and explore several representative methods. Going a step further, an effective co-attention model is presented to capture the dependency between textual and visual information. Evaluation results show that our proposed model can achieve better performance than competitive baselines.
Recently, to incorporate external Knowledge Base (KB) information, one form of world knowledge, several end-to-end task-oriented dialog systems have been proposed. These models, however, tend to confound the dialog history with KB tuples and simply store them into one memory. Inspired by the psychological studies on working memory, we propose a working memory model (WMM2Seq) for dialog response generation. Our WMM2Seq adopts a working memory to interact with two separated long-term memories, which are the episodic memory for memorizing dialog history and the semantic memory for storing KB tuples. The working memory consists of a central executive to attend to the aforementioned memories, and a short-term storage system to store the {``}activated{''} contents from the long-term memories. Furthermore, we introduce a context-sensitive perceptual process for the token representations of dialog history, and then feed them into the episodic memory. Extensive experiments on two task-oriented dialog datasets demonstrate that our WMM2Seq significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art results in several evaluation metrics.
We propose a new CogQA framework for multi-hop reading comprehension question answering in web-scale documents. Founded on the dual process theory in cognitive science, the framework gradually builds a \textit{cognitive graph} in an iterative process by coordinating an implicit extraction module (System 1) and an explicit reasoning module (System 2). While giving accurate answers, our framework further provides explainable reasoning paths. Specifically, our implementation based on BERT and graph neural network efficiently handles millions of documents for multi-hop reasoning questions in the HotpotQA fullwiki dataset, achieving a winning joint $F_1$ score of 34.9 on the leaderboard, compared to 23.1 of the best competitor.
Multi-hop reading comprehension (RC) across documents poses new challenge over single-document RC because it requires reasoning over multiple documents to reach the final answer. In this paper, we propose a new model to tackle the multi-hop RC problem. We introduce a heterogeneous graph with different types of nodes and edges, which is named as Heterogeneous Document-Entity (HDE) graph. The advantage of HDE graph is that it contains different granularity levels of information including candidates, documents and entities in specific document contexts. Our proposed model can do reasoning over the HDE graph with nodes representation initialized with co-attention and self-attention based context encoders. We employ Graph Neural Networks (GNN) based message passing algorithms to accumulate evidences on the proposed HDE graph. Evaluated on the blind test set of the Qangaroo WikiHop data set, our HDE graph based single model delivers competitive result, and the ensemble model achieves the state-of-the-art performance.
Multi-hop reading comprehension requires the model to explore and connect relevant information from multiple sentences/documents in order to answer the question about the context. To achieve this, we propose an interpretable 3-module system called Explore-Propose-Assemble reader (EPAr). First, the Document Explorer iteratively selects relevant documents and represents divergent reasoning chains in a tree structure so as to allow assimilating information from all chains. The Answer Proposer then proposes an answer from every root-to-leaf path in the reasoning tree. Finally, the Evidence Assembler extracts a key sentence containing the proposed answer from every path and combines them to predict the final answer. Intuitively, EPAr approximates the coarse-to-fine-grained comprehension behavior of human readers when facing multiple long documents. We jointly optimize our 3 modules by minimizing the sum of losses from each stage conditioned on the previous stage{'}s output. On two multi-hop reading comprehension datasets WikiHop and MedHop, our EPAr model achieves significant improvements over the baseline and competitive results compared to the state-of-the-art model. We also present multiple reasoning-chain-recovery tests and ablation studies to demonstrate our system{'}s ability to perform interpretable and accurate reasoning.
Multi-hop question answering requires a model to connect multiple pieces of evidence scattered in a long context to answer the question. In this paper, we show that in the multi-hop HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) dataset, the examples often contain reasoning shortcuts through which models can directly locate the answer by word-matching the question with a sentence in the context. We demonstrate this issue by constructing adversarial documents that create contradicting answers to the shortcut but do not affect the validity of the original answer. The performance of strong baseline models drops significantly on our adversarial test, indicating that they are indeed exploiting the shortcuts rather than performing multi-hop reasoning. After adversarial training, the baseline{'}s performance improves but is still limited on the adversarial test. Hence, we use a control unit that dynamically attends to the question at different reasoning hops to guide the model{'}s multi-hop reasoning. We show that our 2-hop model trained on the regular data is more robust to the adversaries than the baseline. After adversarial training, it not only achieves significant improvements over its counterpart trained on regular data, but also outperforms the adversarially-trained baseline significantly. Finally, we sanity-check that these improvements are not obtained by exploiting potential new shortcuts in the adversarial data, but indeed due to robust multi-hop reasoning skills of the models.
We propose a novel, path-based reasoning approach for the multi-hop reading comprehension task where a system needs to combine facts from multiple passages to answer a question. Although inspired by multi-hop reasoning over knowledge graphs, our proposed approach operates directly over unstructured text. It generates potential paths through passages and scores them without any direct path supervision. The proposed model, named PathNet, attempts to extract implicit relations from text through entity pair representations, and compose them to encode each path. To capture additional context, PathNet also composes the passage representations along each path to compute a passage-based representation. Unlike previous approaches, our model is then able to explain its reasoning via these explicit paths through the passages. We show that our approach outperforms prior models on the multi-hop Wikihop dataset, and also can be generalized to apply to the OpenBookQA dataset, matching state-of-the-art performance.
For evaluating machine-generated texts, automatic methods hold the promise of avoiding collection of human judgments, which can be expensive and time-consuming. The most common automatic metrics, like BLEU and ROUGE, depend on exact word matching, an inflexible approach for measuring semantic similarity. We introduce methods based on sentence mover{'}s similarity; our automatic metrics evaluate text in a continuous space using word and sentence embeddings. We find that sentence-based metrics correlate with human judgments significantly better than ROUGE, both on machine-generated summaries (average length of 3.4 sentences) and human-authored essays (average length of 7.5). We also show that sentence mover{'}s similarity can be used as a reward when learning a generation model via reinforcement learning; we present both automatic and human evaluations of summaries learned in this way, finding that our approach outperforms ROUGE.
Many complex discourse-level tasks can aid domain experts in their work but require costly expert annotations for data creation. To speed up and ease annotations, we investigate the viability of automatically generated annotation suggestions for such tasks. As an example, we choose a task that is particularly hard for both humans and machines: the segmentation and classification of epistemic activities in diagnostic reasoning texts. We create and publish a new dataset covering two domains and carefully analyse the suggested annotations. We find that suggestions have positive effects on annotation speed and performance, while not introducing noteworthy biases. Envisioning suggestion models that improve with newly annotated texts, we contrast methods for continuous model adjustment and suggest the most effective setup for suggestions in future expert tasks.
Comparing between Deep Neural Network (DNN) models based on their performance on unseen data is crucial for the progress of the NLP field. However, these models have a large number of hyper-parameters and, being non-convex, their convergence point depends on the random values chosen at initialization and during training. Proper DNN comparison hence requires a comparison between their empirical score distributions on unseen data, rather than between single evaluation scores as is standard for more simple, convex models. In this paper, we propose to adapt to this problem a recently proposed test for the Almost Stochastic Dominance relation between two distributions. We define the criteria for a high quality comparison method between DNNs, and show, both theoretically and through analysis of extensive experimental results with leading DNN models for sequence tagging tasks, that the proposed test meets all criteria while previously proposed methods fail to do so. We hope the test we propose here will set a new working practice in the NLP community.
It is standard practice in speech {\&} language technology to rank systems according to their performance on a test set held out for evaluation. However, few researchers apply statistical tests to determine whether differences in performance are likely to arise by chance, and few examine the stability of system ranking across multiple training-testing splits. We conduct replication and reproduction experiments with nine part-of-speech taggers published between 2000 and 2018, each of which claimed state-of-the-art performance on a widely-used {``}standard split{''}. While we replicate results on the standard split, we fail to reliably reproduce some rankings when we repeat this analysis with randomly generated training-testing splits. We argue that randomly generated splits should be used in system evaluation.
Existing datasets for scoring text pairs in terms of semantic similarity contain instances whose resolution differs according to the degree of difficulty. This paper proposes to distinguish obvious from non-obvious text pairs based on superficial lexical overlap and ground-truth labels. We characterise existing datasets in terms of containing difficult cases and find that recently proposed models struggle to capture the non-obvious cases of semantic similarity. We describe metrics that emphasise cases of similarity which require more complex inference and propose that these are used for evaluating systems for semantic similarity.
Accurate, automatic evaluation of machine translation is critical for system tuning, and evaluating progress in the field. We proposed a simple unsupervised metric, and additional supervised metrics which rely on contextual word embeddings to encode the translation and reference sentences. We find that these models rival or surpass all existing metrics in the WMT 2017 sentence-level and system-level tracks, and our trained model has a substantially higher correlation with human judgements than all existing metrics on the WMT 2017 to-English sentence level dataset.
As the online world continues its exponential growth, interpersonal communication has come to play an increasingly central role in opinion formation and change. In order to help users better engage with each other online, we study a challenging problem of re-entry prediction foreseeing whether a user will come back to a conversation they once participated in. We hypothesize that both the context of the ongoing conversations and the users{'} previous chatting history will affect their continued interests in future engagement. Specifically, we propose a neural framework with three main layers, each modeling context, user history, and interactions between them, to explore how the conversation context and user chatting history jointly result in their re-entry behavior. We experiment with two large-scale datasets collected from Twitter and Reddit. Results show that our proposed framework with bi-attention achieves an F1 score of 61.1 on Twitter conversations, outperforming the state-of-the-art methods from previous work.
Although there is an unprecedented effort to provide adequate responses in terms of laws and policies to hate content on social media platforms, dealing with hatred online is still a tough problem. Tackling hate speech in the standard way of content deletion or user suspension may be charged with censorship and overblocking. One alternate strategy, that has received little attention so far by the research community, is to actually oppose hate content with counter-narratives (i.e. informed textual responses). In this paper, we describe the creation of the first large-scale, multilingual, expert-based dataset of hate-speech/counter-narrative pairs. This dataset has been built with the effort of more than 100 operators from three different NGOs that applied their training and expertise to the task. Together with the collected data we also provide additional annotations about expert demographics, hate and response type, and data augmentation through translation and paraphrasing. Finally, we provide initial experiments to assess the quality of our data.
Text in social media posts is frequently accompanied by images in order to provide content, supply context, or to express feelings. This paper studies how the meaning of the entire tweet is composed through the relationship between its textual content and its image. We build and release a data set of image tweets annotated with four classes which express whether the text or the image provides additional information to the other modality. We show that by combining the text and image information, we can build a machine learning approach that accurately distinguishes between the relationship types. Further, we derive insights into how these relationships are materialized through text and image content analysis and how they are impacted by user demographic traits. These methods can be used in several downstream applications including pre-training image tagging models, collecting distantly supervised data for image captioning, and can be directly used in end-user applications to optimize screen estate.
Understanding the structures of political debates (which actors make what claims) is essential for understanding democratic political decision making. The vision of computational construction of such discourse networks from newspaper reports brings together political science and natural language processing. This paper presents three contributions towards this goal: (a) a requirements analysis, linking the task to knowledge base population; (b) an annotated pilot corpus of migration claims based on German newspaper reports; (c) initial modeling results.
Research on social media has to date assumed that all posts from an account are authored by the same person. In this study, we challenge this assumption and study the linguistic differences between posts signed by the account owner or attributed to their staff. We introduce a novel data set of tweets posted by U.S. politicians who self-reported their tweets using a signature. We analyze the linguistic topics and style features that distinguish the two types of tweets. Predictive results show that we are able to predict owner and staff attributed tweets with good accuracy, even when not using any training data from that account.
We investigate the impact of using author context on textual sarcasm detection. We define author context as the embedded representation of their historical posts on Twitter and suggest neural models that extract these representations. We experiment with two tweet datasets, one labelled manually for sarcasm, and the other via tag-based distant supervision. We achieve state-of-the-art performance on the second dataset, but not on the one labelled manually, indicating a difference between intended sarcasm, captured by distant supervision, and perceived sarcasm, captured by manual labelling.
We consider open domain event extraction, the task of extracting unconstraint types of events from news clusters. A novel latent variable neural model is constructed, which is scalable to very large corpus. A dataset is collected and manually annotated, with task-specific evaluation metrics being designed. Results show that the proposed unsupervised model gives better performance compared to the state-of-the-art method for event schema induction.
This paper presents a multi-level matching and aggregation network (MLMAN) for few-shot relation classification. Previous studies on this topic adopt prototypical networks, which calculate the embedding vector of a query instance and the prototype vector of the support set for each relation candidate independently. On the contrary, our proposed MLMAN model encodes the query instance and each support set in an interactive way by considering their matching information at both local and instance levels. The final class prototype for each support set is obtained by attentive aggregation over the representations of support instances, where the weights are calculated using the query instance. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods, which achieve a new state-of-the-art performance on the FewRel dataset.
We introduce a conceptually simple and effective method to quantify the similarity between relations in knowledge bases. Specifically, our approach is based on the divergence between the conditional probability distributions over entity pairs. In this paper, these distributions are parameterized by a very simple neural network. Although computing the exact similarity is in-tractable, we provide a sampling-based method to get a good approximation. We empirically show the outputs of our approach significantly correlate with human judgments. By applying our method to various tasks, we also find that (1) our approach could effectively detect redundant relations extracted by open information extraction (Open IE) models, that (2) even the most competitive models for relational classification still make mistakes among very similar relations, and that (3) our approach could be incorporated into negative sampling and softmax classification to alleviate these mistakes.
We present a novel semantic framework for modeling temporal relations and event durations that maps pairs of events to real-valued scales. We use this framework to construct the largest temporal relations dataset to date, covering the entirety of the Universal Dependencies English Web Treebank. We use this dataset to train models for jointly predicting fine-grained temporal relations and event durations. We report strong results on our data and show the efficacy of a transfer-learning approach for predicting categorical relations.
Attention mechanisms have recently boosted performance on a range of NLP tasks. Because attention layers explicitly weight input components{'} representations, it is also often assumed that attention can be used to identify information that models found important (e.g., specific contextualized word tokens). We test whether that assumption holds by manipulating attention weights in already-trained text classification models and analyzing the resulting differences in their predictions. While we observe some ways in which higher attention weights correlate with greater impact on model predictions, we also find many ways in which this does not hold, i.e., where gradient-based rankings of attention weights better predict their effects than their magnitudes. We conclude that while attention noisily predicts input components{'} overall importance to a model, it is by no means a fail-safe indicator.
Analysis methods which enable us to better understand the representations and functioning of neural models of language are increasingly needed as deep learning becomes the dominant approach in NLP. Here we present two methods based on Representational Similarity Analysis (RSA) and Tree Kernels (TK) which allow us to directly quantify how strongly the information encoded in neural activation patterns corresponds to information represented by symbolic structures such as syntax trees. We first validate our methods on the case of a simple synthetic language for arithmetic expressions with clearly defined syntax and semantics, and show that they exhibit the expected pattern of results. We then our methods to correlate neural representations of English sentences with their constituency parse trees.
The success of neural networks comes hand in hand with a desire for more interpretability. We focus on text classifiers and make them more interpretable by having them provide a justification{--}a rationale{--}for their predictions. We approach this problem by jointly training two neural network models: a latent model that selects a rationale (i.e. a short and informative part of the input text), and a classifier that learns from the words in the rationale alone. Previous work proposed to assign binary latent masks to input positions and to promote short selections via sparsity-inducing penalties such as L0 regularisation. We propose a latent model that mixes discrete and continuous behaviour allowing at the same time for binary selections and gradient-based training without REINFORCE. In our formulation, we can tractably compute the expected value of penalties such as L0, which allows us to directly optimise the model towards a pre-specified text selection rate. We show that our approach is competitive with previous work on rationale extraction, and explore further uses in attention mechanisms.
Transformers have a potential of learning longer-term dependency, but are limited by a fixed-length context in the setting of language modeling. We propose a novel neural architecture Transformer-XL that enables learning dependency beyond a fixed length without disrupting temporal coherence. It consists of a segment-level recurrence mechanism and a novel positional encoding scheme. Our method not only enables capturing longer-term dependency, but also resolves the context fragmentation problem. As a result, Transformer-XL learns dependency that is 80{\%} longer than RNNs and 450{\%} longer than vanilla Transformers, achieves better performance on both short and long sequences, and is up to 1,800+ times faster than vanilla Transformers during evaluation. Notably, we improve the state-of-the-art results of bpc/perplexity to 0.99 on enwiki8, 1.08 on text8, 18.3 on WikiText-103, 21.8 on One Billion Word, and 54.5 on Penn Treebank (without finetuning). When trained only on WikiText-103, Transformer-XL manages to generate reasonably coherent, novel text articles with thousands of tokens. Our code, pretrained models, and hyperparameters are available in both Tensorflow and PyTorch.
It has been previously noted that neural machine translation (NMT) is very sensitive to domain shift. In this paper, we argue that this is a dual effect of the highly lexicalized nature of NMT, resulting in failure for sentences with large numbers of unknown words, and lack of supervision for domain-specific words. To remedy this problem, we propose an unsupervised adaptation method which fine-tunes a pre-trained out-of-domain NMT model using a pseudo-in-domain corpus. Specifically, we perform lexicon induction to extract an in-domain lexicon, and construct a pseudo-parallel in-domain corpus by performing word-for-word back-translation of monolingual in-domain target sentences. In five domains over twenty pairwise adaptation settings and two model architectures, our method achieves consistent improvements without using any in-domain parallel sentences, improving up to 14 BLEU over unadapted models, and up to 2 BLEU over strong back-translation baselines.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has achieved notable success in recent years. Such a framework usually generates translations in isolation. In contrast, human translators often refer to reference data, either rephrasing the intricate sentence fragments with common terms in source language, or just accessing to the golden translation directly. In this paper, we propose a Reference Network to incorporate referring process into translation decoding of NMT. To construct a reference book, an intuitive way is to store the detailed translation history with extra memory, which is computationally expensive. Instead, we employ Local Coordinates Coding (LCC) to obtain global context vectors containing monolingual and bilingual contextual information for NMT decoding. Experimental results on Chinese-English and English-German tasks demonstrate that our proposed model is effective in improving the translation quality with lightweight computation cost.
Non-Autoregressive Transformer (NAT) aims to accelerate the Transformer model through discarding the autoregressive mechanism and generating target words independently, which fails to exploit the target sequential information. Over-translation and under-translation errors often occur for the above reason, especially in the long sentence translation scenario. In this paper, we propose two approaches to retrieve the target sequential information for NAT to enhance its translation ability while preserving the fast-decoding property. Firstly, we propose a sequence-level training method based on a novel reinforcement algorithm for NAT (Reinforce-NAT) to reduce the variance and stabilize the training procedure. Secondly, we propose an innovative Transformer decoder named FS-decoder to fuse the target sequential information into the top layer of the decoder. Experimental results on three translation tasks show that the Reinforce-NAT surpasses the baseline NAT system by a significant margin on BLEU without decelerating the decoding speed and the FS-decoder achieves comparable translation performance to the autoregressive Transformer with considerable speedup.
Simultaneous translation, which translates sentences before they are finished, is use- ful in many scenarios but is notoriously dif- ficult due to word-order differences. While the conventional seq-to-seq framework is only suitable for full-sentence translation, we pro- pose a novel prefix-to-prefix framework for si- multaneous translation that implicitly learns to anticipate in a single translation model. Within this framework, we present a very sim- ple yet surprisingly effective {``}wait-k{''} policy trained to generate the target sentence concur- rently with the source sentence, but always k words behind. Experiments show our strat- egy achieves low latency and reasonable qual- ity (compared to full-sentence translation) on 4 directions: zh↔en and de↔en.
Soft-attention based Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models have achieved promising results on several translation tasks. These models attend all the words in the source sequence for each target token, which makes them ineffective for long sequence translation. In this work, we propose a hard-attention based NMT model which selects a subset of source tokens for each target token to effectively handle long sequence translation. Due to the discrete nature of the hard-attention mechanism, we design a reinforcement learning algorithm coupled with reward shaping strategy to efficiently train it. Experimental results show that the proposed model performs better on long sequences and thereby achieves significant BLEU score improvement on English-German (EN-DE) and English-French (ENFR) translation tasks compared to the soft attention based NMT.
Neural machine translation (NMT) is notoriously sensitive to noises, but noises are almost inevitable in practice. One special kind of noise is the \textit{homophone noise}, where words are replaced by other words with similar pronunciations. We propose to improve the robustness of NMT to homophone noises by 1) jointly embedding both textual and phonetic information of source sentences, and 2) augmenting the training dataset with homophone noises. Interestingly, to achieve better translation quality and more robustness, we found that most (though not all) weights should be put on the phonetic rather than textual information. Experiments show that our method not only significantly improves the robustness of NMT to homophone noises, but also surprisingly improves the translation quality on some clean test sets.
Automatic post-editing (APE) seeks to automatically refine the output of a black-box machine translation (MT) system through human post-edits. APE systems are usually trained by complementing human post-edited data with large, artificial data generated through back-translations, a time-consuming process often no easier than training a MT system from scratch. in this paper, we propose an alternative where we fine-tune pre-trained BERT models on both the encoder and decoder of an APE system, exploring several parameter sharing strategies. By only training on a dataset of 23K sentences for 3 hours on a single GPU we obtain results that are competitive with systems that were trained on 5M artificial sentences. When we add this artificial data our method obtains state-of-the-art results.
Given a rough, word-by-word gloss of a source language sentence, target language natives can uncover the latent, fully-fluent rendering of the translation. In this work we explore this intuition by breaking translation into a two step process: generating a rough gloss by means of a dictionary and then {`}translating{'} the resulting pseudo-translation, or {`}Translationese{'} into a fully fluent translation. We build our Translationese decoder once from a mish-mash of parallel data that has the target language in common and then can build dictionaries on demand using unsupervised techniques, resulting in rapidly generated unsupervised neural MT systems for many source languages. We apply this process to 14 test languages, obtaining better or comparable translation results on high-resource languages than previously published unsupervised MT studies, and obtaining good quality results for low-resource languages that have never been used in an unsupervised MT scenario.
This paper proposes a novel method to inject custom terminology into neural machine translation at run time. Previous works have mainly proposed modifications to the decoding algorithm in order to constrain the output to include run-time-provided target terms. While being effective, these constrained decoding methods add, however, significant computational overhead to the inference step, and, as we show in this paper, can be brittle when tested in realistic conditions. In this paper we approach the problem by training a neural MT system to learn how to use custom terminology when provided with the input. Comparative experiments show that our method is not only more effective than a state-of-the-art implementation of constrained decoding, but is also as fast as constraint-free decoding.
Self-attention networks have received increasing research attention. By default, the hidden states of each word are hierarchically calculated by attending to all words in the sentence, which assembles global information. However, several studies pointed out that taking all signals into account may lead to overlooking neighboring information (e.g. phrase pattern). To address this argument, we propose a hybrid attention mechanism to dynamically leverage both of the local and global information. Specifically, our approach uses a gating scalar for integrating both sources of the information, which is also convenient for quantifying their contributions. Experiments on various neural machine translation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. The extensive analyses verify that the two types of contexts are complementary to each other, and our method gives highly effective improvements in their integration.
The training objective of neural machine translation (NMT) is to minimize the loss between the words in the translated sentences and those in the references. In NMT, there is a natural correspondence between the source sentence and the target sentence. However, this relationship has only been represented using the entire neural network and the training objective is computed in word-level. In this paper, we propose a sentence-level agreement module to directly minimize the difference between the representation of source and target sentence. The proposed agreement module can be integrated into NMT as an additional training objective function and can also be used to enhance the representation of the source sentences. Empirical results on the NIST Chinese-to-English and WMT English-to-German tasks show the proposed agreement module can significantly improve the NMT performance.
In this paper, we propose a multilingual unsupervised NMT scheme which jointly trains multiple languages with a shared encoder and multiple decoders. Our approach is based on denoising autoencoding of each language and back-translating between English and multiple non-English languages. This results in a universal encoder which can encode any language participating in training into an inter-lingual representation, and language-specific decoders. Our experiments using only monolingual corpora show that multilingual unsupervised model performs better than the separately trained bilingual models achieving improvement of up to 1.48 BLEU points on WMT test sets. We also observe that even if we do not train the network for all possible translation directions, the network is still able to translate in a many-to-many fashion leveraging encoder{'}s ability to generate interlingual representation.
Neural machine translation (NMT) takes deterministic sequences for source representations. However, either word-level or subword-level segmentations have multiple choices to split a source sequence with different word segmentors or different subword vocabulary sizes. We hypothesize that the diversity in segmentations may affect the NMT performance. To integrate different segmentations with the state-of-the-art NMT model, Transformer, we propose lattice-based encoders to explore effective word or subword representation in an automatic way during training. We propose two methods: 1) lattice positional encoding and 2) lattice-aware self-attention. These two methods can be used together and show complementary to each other to further improve translation performance. Experiment results show superiorities of lattice-based encoders in word-level and subword-level representations over conventional Transformer encoder.
Modern NLP applications have enjoyed a great boost utilizing neural networks models. Such deep neural models, however, are not applicable to most human languages due to the lack of annotated training data for various NLP tasks. Cross-lingual transfer learning (CLTL) is a viable method for building NLP models for a low-resource target language by leveraging labeled data from other (source) languages. In this work, we focus on the multilingual transfer setting where training data in multiple source languages is leveraged to further boost target language performance. Unlike most existing methods that rely only on language-invariant features for CLTL, our approach coherently utilizes both language-invariant and language-specific features at instance level. Our model leverages adversarial networks to learn language-invariant features, and mixture-of-experts models to dynamically exploit the similarity between the target language and each individual source language. This enables our model to learn effectively what to share between various languages in the multilingual setup. Moreover, when coupled with unsupervised multilingual embeddings, our model can operate in a zero-resource setting where neither target language training data nor cross-lingual resources are available. Our model achieves significant performance gains over prior art, as shown in an extensive set of experiments over multiple text classification and sequence tagging tasks including a large-scale industry dataset.
Recently, a variety of unsupervised methods have been proposed that map pre-trained word embeddings of different languages into the same space without any parallel data. These methods aim to find a linear transformation based on the assumption that monolingual word embeddings are approximately isomorphic between languages. However, it has been demonstrated that this assumption holds true only on specific conditions, and with limited resources, the performance of these methods decreases drastically. To overcome this problem, we propose a new unsupervised multilingual embedding method that does not rely on such assumption and performs well under resource-poor scenarios, namely when only a small amount of monolingual data (i.e., 50k sentences) are available, or when the domains of monolingual data are different across languages. Our proposed model, which we call {`}Multilingual Neural Language Models{'}, shares some of the network parameters among multiple languages, and encodes sentences of multiple languages into the same space. The model jointly learns word embeddings of different languages in the same space, and generates multilingual embeddings without any parallel data or pre-training. Our experiments on word alignment tasks have demonstrated that, on the low-resource condition, our model substantially outperforms existing unsupervised and even supervised methods trained with 500 bilingual pairs of words. Our model also outperforms unsupervised methods given different-domain corpora across languages. Our code is publicly available.
Cross-lingual transfer, where a high-resource transfer language is used to improve the accuracy of a low-resource task language, is now an invaluable tool for improving performance of natural language processing (NLP) on low-resource languages. However, given a particular task language, it is not clear which language to transfer from, and the standard strategy is to select languages based on ad hoc criteria, usually the intuition of the experimenter. Since a large number of features contribute to the success of cross-lingual transfer (including phylogenetic similarity, typological properties, lexical overlap, or size of available data), even the most enlightened experimenter rarely considers all these factors for the particular task at hand. In this paper, we consider this task of automatically selecting optimal transfer languages as a ranking problem, and build models that consider the aforementioned features to perform this prediction. In experiments on representative NLP tasks, we demonstrate that our model predicts good transfer languages much better than ad hoc baselines considering single features in isolation, and glean insights on what features are most informative for each different NLP tasks, which may inform future ad hoc selection even without use of our method.
This paper introduces CogNet, a new, large-scale lexical database that provides cognates -words of common origin and meaning- across languages. The database currently contains 3.1 million cognate pairs across 338 languages using 35 writing systems. The paper also describes the automated method by which cognates were computed from publicly available wordnets, with an accuracy evaluated to 94{\%}. Finally, it presents statistics about the cognate data and some initial insights into it, hinting at a possible future exploitation of the resource by various fields of lingustics.
In this paper we propose a novel neural approach for automatic decipherment of lost languages. To compensate for the lack of strong supervision signal, our model design is informed by patterns in language change documented in historical linguistics. The model utilizes an expressive sequence-to-sequence model to capture character-level correspondences between cognates. To effectively train the model in unsupervised manner, we innovate the training procedure by formalizing it as a minimum-cost flow problem. When applied to decipherment of Ugaritic, we achieve 5{\%} absolute improvement over state-of-the-art results. We also report first automatic results in deciphering Linear B, a syllabic language related to ancient Greek, where our model correctly translates 67.3{\%} of cognates.
Previous cross-lingual knowledge graph (KG) alignment studies rely on entity embeddings derived only from monolingual KG structural information, which may fail at matching entities that have different facts in two KGs. In this paper, we introduce the topic entity graph, a local sub-graph of an entity, to represent entities with their contextual information in KG. From this view, the KB-alignment task can be formulated as a graph matching problem; and we further propose a graph-attention based solution, which first matches all entities in two topic entity graphs, and then jointly model the local matching information to derive a graph-level matching vector. Experiments show that our model outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods by a large margin.
Abstractive Sentence Summarization (ASSUM) targets at grasping the core idea of the source sentence and presenting it as the summary. It is extensively studied using statistical models or neural models based on the large-scale monolingual source-summary parallel corpus. But there is no cross-lingual parallel corpus, whose source sentence language is different to the summary language, to directly train a cross-lingual ASSUM system. We propose to solve this zero-shot problem by using resource-rich monolingual ASSUM system to teach zero-shot cross-lingual ASSUM system on both summary word generation and attention. This teaching process is along with a back-translation process which simulates source-summary pairs. Experiments on cross-lingual ASSUM task show that our proposed method is significantly better than pipeline baselines and previous works, and greatly enhances the cross-lingual performances closer to the monolingual performances.
In this paper, we propose to boost low-resource cross-lingual document retrieval performance with deep bilingual query-document representations. We match queries and documents in both source and target languages with four components, each of which is implemented as a term interaction-based deep neural network with cross-lingual word embeddings as input. By including query likelihood scores as extra features, our model effectively learns to rerank the retrieved documents by using a small number of relevance labels for low-resource language pairs. Due to the shared cross-lingual word embedding space, the model can also be directly applied to another language pair without any training label. Experimental results on the Material dataset show that our model outperforms the competitive translation-based baselines on English-Swahili, English-Tagalog, and English-Somali cross-lingual information retrieval tasks.
Cross-lingual word embeddings (CLWE) underlie many multilingual natural language processing systems, often through orthogonal transformations of pre-trained monolingual embeddings. However, orthogonal mapping only works on language pairs whose embeddings are naturally isomorphic. For non-isomorphic pairs, our method (Iterative Normalization) transforms monolingual embeddings to make orthogonal alignment easier by simultaneously enforcing that (1) individual word vectors are unit length, and (2) each language{'}s average vector is zero. Iterative Normalization consistently improves word translation accuracy of three CLWE methods, with the largest improvement observed on English-Japanese (from 2{\%} to 44{\%} test accuracy).
The task of unsupervised bilingual lexicon induction (UBLI) aims to induce word translations from monolingual corpora in two languages. Previous work has shown that morphological variation is an intractable challenge for the UBLI task, where the induced translation in failure case is usually morphologically related to the correct translation. To tackle this challenge, we propose a morphology-aware alignment model for the UBLI task. The proposed model aims to alleviate the adverse effect of morphological variation by introducing grammatical information learned by the pre-trained denoising language model. Results show that our approach can substantially outperform several state-of-the-art unsupervised systems, and even achieves competitive performance compared to supervised methods.
Machine translation is highly sensitive to the size and quality of the training data, which has led to an increasing interest in collecting and filtering large parallel corpora. In this paper, we propose a new method for this task based on multilingual sentence embeddings. In contrast to previous approaches, which rely on nearest neighbor retrieval with a hard threshold over cosine similarity, our proposed method accounts for the scale inconsistencies of this measure, considering the margin between a given sentence pair and its closest candidates instead. Our experiments show large improvements over existing methods. We outperform the best published results on the BUCC mining task and the UN reconstruction task by more than 10 F1 and 30 precision points, respectively. Filtering the English-German ParaCrawl corpus with our approach, we obtain 31.2 BLEU points on newstest2014, an improvement of more than one point over the best official filtered version.
Viable cross-lingual transfer critically depends on the availability of parallel texts. Shortage of such resources imposes a development and evaluation bottleneck in multilingual processing. We introduce JW300, a parallel corpus of over 300 languages with around 100 thousand parallel sentences per language pair on average. In this paper, we present the resource and showcase its utility in experiments with cross-lingual word embedding induction and multi-source part-of-speech projection.
Cross-lingual transfer is an effective way to build syntactic analysis tools in low-resource languages. However, transfer is difficult when transferring to typologically distant languages, especially when neither annotated target data nor parallel corpora are available. In this paper, we focus on methods for cross-lingual transfer to distant languages and propose to learn a generative model with a structured prior that utilizes labeled source data and unlabeled target data jointly. The parameters of source model and target model are softly shared through a regularized log likelihood objective. An invertible projection is employed to learn a new interlingual latent embedding space that compensates for imperfect cross-lingual word embedding input. We evaluate our method on two syntactic tasks: part-of-speech (POS) tagging and dependency parsing. On the Universal Dependency Treebanks, we use English as the only source corpus and transfer to a wide range of target languages. On the 10 languages in this dataset that are distant from English, our method yields an average of 5.2{\%} absolute improvement on POS tagging and 8.3{\%} absolute improvement on dependency parsing over a direct transfer method using state-of-the-art discriminative models.
State-of-the-art methods for unsupervised bilingual word embeddings (BWE) train a mapping function that maps pre-trained monolingual word embeddings into a bilingual space. Despite its remarkable results, unsupervised mapping is also well-known to be limited by the original dissimilarity between the word embedding spaces to be mapped. In this work, we propose a new approach that trains unsupervised BWE jointly on synthetic parallel data generated through unsupervised machine translation. We demonstrate that existing algorithms that jointly train BWE are very robust to noisy training data and show that unsupervised BWE jointly trained significantly outperform unsupervised mapped BWE in several cross-lingual NLP tasks.
We consider the task of inferring {``}is-a{''} relationships from large text corpora. For this purpose, we propose a new method combining hyperbolic embeddings and Hearst patterns. This approach allows us to set appropriate constraints for inferring concept hierarchies from distributional contexts while also being able to predict missing {``}is-a{''}-relationships and to correct wrong extractions. Moreover {--} and in contrast with other methods {--} the hierarchical nature of hyperbolic space allows us to learn highly efficient representations and to improve the taxonomic consistency of the inferred hierarchies. Experimentally, we show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on several commonly-used benchmarks.
Segmenting a chunk of text into words is usually the first step of processing Chinese text, but its necessity has rarely been explored. In this paper, we ask the fundamental question of whether Chinese word segmentation (CWS) is necessary for deep learning-based Chinese Natural Language Processing. We benchmark neural word-based models which rely on word segmentation against neural char-based models which do not involve word segmentation in four end-to-end NLP benchmark tasks: language modeling, machine translation, sentence matching/paraphrase and text classification. Through direct comparisons between these two types of models, we find that char-based models consistently outperform word-based models. Based on these observations, we conduct comprehensive experiments to study why word-based models underperform char-based models in these deep learning-based NLP tasks. We show that it is because word-based models are more vulnerable to data sparsity and the presence of out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words, and thus more prone to overfitting. We hope this paper could encourage researchers in the community to rethink the necessity of word segmentation in deep learning-based Chinese Natural Language Processing.
A surprising property of word vectors is that word analogies can often be solved with vector arithmetic. However, it is unclear why arithmetic operators correspond to non-linear embedding models such as skip-gram with negative sampling (SGNS). We provide a formal explanation of this phenomenon without making the strong assumptions that past theories have made about the vector space and word distribution. Our theory has several implications. Past work has conjectured that linear substructures exist in vector spaces because relations can be represented as ratios; we prove that this holds for SGNS. We provide novel justification for the addition of SGNS word vectors by showing that it automatically down-weights the more frequent word, as weighting schemes do ad hoc. Lastly, we offer an information theoretic interpretation of Euclidean distance in vector spaces, justifying its use in capturing word dissimilarity.
The compositionality degree of multiword expressions indicates to what extent the meaning of a phrase can be derived from the meaning of its constituents and their grammatical relations. Prediction of (non)-compositionality is a task that has been frequently addressed with distributional semantic models. We introduce a novel technique to blend hierarchical information with distributional information for predicting compositionality. In particular, we use hypernymy information of the multiword and its constituents encoded in the form of the recently introduced Poincar{\'e} embeddings in addition to the distributional information to detect compositionality for noun phrases. Using a weighted average of the distributional similarity and a Poincar{\'e} similarity function, we obtain consistent and substantial, statistically significant improvement across three gold standard datasets over state-of-the-art models based on distributional information only. Unlike traditional approaches that solely use an unsupervised setting, we have also framed the problem as a supervised task, obtaining comparable improvements. Further, we publicly release our Poincar{\'e} embeddings, which are trained on the output of handcrafted lexical-syntactic patterns on a large corpus.
Biomedical concepts are often mentioned in medical documents under different name variations (synonyms). This mismatch between surface forms is problematic, resulting in difficulties pertaining to learning effective representations. Consequently, this has tremendous implications such as rendering downstream applications inefficacious and/or potentially unreliable. This paper proposes a new framework for learning robust representations of biomedical names and terms. The idea behind our approach is to consider and encode contextual meaning, conceptual meaning, and the similarity between synonyms during the representation learning process. Via extensive experiments, we show that our proposed method outperforms other baselines on a battery of retrieval, similarity and relatedness benchmarks. Moreover, our proposed method is also able to compute meaningful representations for unseen names, resulting in high practical utility in real-world applications.
While word embeddings have been shown to implicitly encode various forms of attributional knowledge, the extent to which they capture relational information is far more limited. In previous work, this limitation has been addressed by incorporating relational knowledge from external knowledge bases when learning the word embedding. Such strategies may not be optimal, however, as they are limited by the coverage of available resources and conflate similarity with other forms of relatedness. As an alternative, in this paper we propose to encode relational knowledge in a separate word embedding, which is aimed to be complementary to a given standard word embedding. This relational word embedding is still learned from co-occurrence statistics, and can thus be used even when no external knowledge base is available. Our analysis shows that relational word vectors do indeed capture information that is complementary to what is encoded in standard word embeddings.
Discriminating antonyms and synonyms is an important NLP task that has the difficulty that both, antonyms and synonyms, contains similar distributional information. Consequently, pairs of antonyms and synonyms may have similar word vectors. We present an approach to unravel antonymy and synonymy from word vectors based on a siamese network inspired approach. The model consists of a two-phase training of the same base network: a pre-training phase according to a siamese model supervised by synonyms and a training phase on antonyms through a siamese-like model that supports the antitransitivity present in antonymy. The approach makes use of the claim that the antonyms in common of a word tend to be synonyms. We show that our approach outperforms distributional and pattern-based approaches, relaying on a simple feed forward network as base network of the training phases.
Word embeddings have been widely adopted across several NLP applications. Most existing word embedding methods utilize sequential context of a word to learn its embedding. While there have been some attempts at utilizing syntactic context of a word, such methods result in an explosion of the vocabulary size. In this paper, we overcome this problem by proposing SynGCN, a flexible Graph Convolution based method for learning word embeddings. SynGCN utilizes the dependency context of a word without increasing the vocabulary size. Word embeddings learned by SynGCN outperform existing methods on various intrinsic and extrinsic tasks and provide an advantage when used with ELMo. We also propose SemGCN, an effective framework for incorporating diverse semantic knowledge for further enhancing learned word representations. We make the source code of both models available to encourage reproducible research.
Word embedding models typically learn two types of vectors: target word vectors and context word vectors. These vectors are normally learned such that they are predictive of some word co-occurrence statistic, but they are otherwise unconstrained. However, the words from a given language can be organized in various natural groupings, such as syntactic word classes (e.g. nouns, adjectives, verbs) and semantic themes (e.g. sports, politics, sentiment). Our hypothesis in this paper is that embedding models can be improved by explicitly imposing a cluster structure on the set of context word vectors. To this end, our model relies on the assumption that context word vectors are drawn from a mixture of von Mises-Fisher (vMF) distributions, where the parameters of this mixture distribution are jointly optimized with the word vectors. We show that this results in word vectors which are qualitatively different from those obtained with existing word embedding models. We furthermore show that our embedding model can also be used to learn high-quality document representations.
Unsupervised word embeddings have become a popular approach of word representation in NLP tasks. However there are limitations to the semantics represented by unsupervised embeddings, and inadequate fine-tuning of embeddings can lead to suboptimal performance. We propose a novel learning technique called Delta Embedding Learning, which can be applied to general NLP tasks to improve performance by optimized tuning of the word embeddings. A structured regularization is applied to the embeddings to ensure they are tuned in an incremental way. As a result, the tuned word embeddings become better word representations by absorbing semantic information from supervision without {``}forgetting.{''} We apply the method to various NLP tasks and see a consistent improvement in performance. Evaluation also confirms the tuned word embeddings have better semantic properties.
We present the first annotated resource for the aspectual classification of German verb tokens in their clausal context. We use aspectual features compatible with the plurality of aspectual classifications in previous work and treat aspectual ambiguity systematically. We evaluate our corpus by using it to train supervised classifiers to automatically assign aspectual categories to verbs in context, permitting favourable comparisons to previous work.
In neural network models of language, words are commonly represented using context-invariant representations (word embeddings) which are then put in context in the hidden layers. Since words are often ambiguous, representing the contextually relevant information is not trivial. We investigate how an LSTM language model deals with lexical ambiguity in English, designing a method to probe its hidden representations for lexical and contextual information about words. We find that both types of information are represented to a large extent, but also that there is room for improvement for contextual information.
Graph measures, such as node distances, are inefficient to compute. We explore dense vector representations as an effective way to approximate the same information. We introduce a simple yet efficient and effective approach for learning graph embeddings. Instead of directly operating on the graph structure, our method takes structural measures of pairwise node similarities into account and learns dense node representations reflecting user-defined graph distance measures, such as e.g. the shortest path distance or distance measures that take information beyond the graph structure into account. We demonstrate a speed-up of several orders of magnitude when predicting word similarity by vector operations on our embeddings as opposed to directly computing the respective path-based measures, while outperforming various other graph embeddings on semantic similarity and word sense disambiguation tasks.
Due to the ubiquitous use of embeddings as input representations for a wide range of natural language tasks, imputation of embeddings for rare and unseen words is a critical problem in language processing. Embedding imputation involves learning representations for rare or unseen words during the training of an embedding model, often in a post-hoc manner. In this paper, we propose an approach for embedding imputation which uses grounded information in the form of a knowledge graph. This is in contrast to existing approaches which typically make use of vector space properties or subword information. We propose an online method to construct a graph from grounded information and design an algorithm to map from the resulting graphical structure to the space of the pre-trained embeddings. Finally, we evaluate our approach on a range of rare and unseen word tasks across various domains and show that our model can learn better representations. For example, on the Card-660 task our method improves Pearson{'}s and Spearman{'}s correlation coefficients upon the state-of-the-art by 11{\%} and 17.8{\%} respectively using GloVe embeddings.
Hypernymy modeling has largely been separated according to two paradigms, pattern-based methods and distributional methods. However, recent works utilizing a mix of these strategies have yielded state-of-the-art results. This paper evaluates the contribution of both paradigms to hybrid success by evaluating the benefits of hybrid treatment of baseline models from each paradigm. Even with a simple methodology for each individual system, utilizing a hybrid approach establishes new state-of-the-art results on two domain-specific English hypernym discovery tasks and outperforms all non-hybrid approaches in a general English hypernym discovery task.
Previous studies on lexical substitution tend to obtain substitute candidates by finding the target word{'}s synonyms from lexical resources (e.g., WordNet) and then rank the candidates based on its contexts. These approaches have two limitations: (1) They are likely to overlook good substitute candidates that are not the synonyms of the target words in the lexical resources; (2) They fail to take into account the substitution{'}s influence on the global context of the sentence. To address these issues, we propose an end-to-end BERT-based lexical substitution approach which can propose and validate substitute candidates without using any annotated data or manually curated resources. Our approach first applies dropout to the target word{'}s embedding for partially masking the word, allowing BERT to take balanced consideration of the target word{'}s semantics and contexts for proposing substitute candidates, and then validates the candidates based on their substitution{'}s influence on the global contextualized representation of the sentence. Experiments show our approach performs well in both proposing and ranking substitute candidates, achieving the state-of-the-art results in both LS07 and LS14 benchmarks.
Word embeddings are now pervasive across NLP subfields as the de-facto method of forming text representataions. In this work, we show that existing embedding models are inadequate at constructing representations that capture salient aspects of mathematical meaning for numbers, which is important for language understanding. Numbers are ubiquitous and frequently appear in text. Inspired by cognitive studies on how humans perceive numbers, we develop an analysis framework to test how well word embeddings capture two essential properties of numbers: magnitude (e.g. 3{\textless}4) and numeration (e.g. 3=three). Our experiments reveal that most models capture an approximate notion of magnitude, but are inadequate at capturing numeration. We hope that our observations provide a starting point for the development of methods which better capture numeracy in NLP systems.
There has been substantial progress in summarization research enabled by the availability of novel, often large-scale, datasets and recent advances on neural network-based approaches. However, manual evaluation of the system generated summaries is inconsistent due to the difficulty the task poses to human non-expert readers. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach for manual evaluation, Highlight-based Reference-less Evaluation of Summarization (HighRES), in which summaries are assessed by multiple annotators against the source document via manually highlighted salient content in the latter. Thus summary assessment on the source document by human judges is facilitated, while the highlights can be used for evaluating multiple systems. To validate our approach we employ crowd-workers to augment with highlights a recently proposed dataset and compare two state-of-the-art systems. We demonstrate that HighRES improves inter-annotator agreement in comparison to using the source document directly, while they help emphasize differences among systems that would be ignored under other evaluation approaches.
We present the first sentence simplification model that learns explicit edit operations (ADD, DELETE, and KEEP) via a neural programmer-interpreter approach. Most current neural sentence simplification systems are variants of sequence-to-sequence models adopted from machine translation. These methods learn to simplify sentences as a byproduct of the fact that they are trained on complex-simple sentence pairs. By contrast, our neural programmer-interpreter is directly trained to predict explicit edit operations on targeted parts of the input sentence, resembling the way that humans perform simplification and revision. Our model outperforms previous state-of-the-art neural sentence simplification models (without external knowledge) by large margins on three benchmark text simplification corpora in terms of SARI (+0.95 WikiLarge, +1.89 WikiSmall, +1.41 Newsela), and is judged by humans to produce overall better and simpler output sentences.
Paraphrasing exists at different granularity levels, such as lexical level, phrasal level and sentential level. This paper presents Decomposable Neural Paraphrase Generator (DNPG), a Transformer-based model that can learn and generate paraphrases of a sentence at different levels of granularity in a disentangled way. Specifically, the model is composed of multiple encoders and decoders with different structures, each of which corresponds to a specific granularity. The empirical study shows that the decomposition mechanism of DNPG makes paraphrase generation more interpretable and controllable. Based on DNPG, we further develop an unsupervised domain adaptation method for paraphrase generation. Experimental results show that the proposed model achieves competitive in-domain performance compared to state-of-the-art neural models, and significantly better performance when adapting to a new domain.
We present an approach for recursively splitting and rephrasing complex English sentences into a novel semantic hierarchy of simplified sentences, with each of them presenting a more regular structure that may facilitate a wide variety of artificial intelligence tasks, such as machine translation (MT) or information extraction (IE). Using a set of hand-crafted transformation rules, input sentences are recursively transformed into a two-layered hierarchical representation in the form of core sentences and accompanying contexts that are linked via rhetorical relations. In this way, the semantic relationship of the decomposed constituents is preserved in the output, maintaining its interpretability for downstream applications. Both a thorough manual analysis and automatic evaluation across three datasets from two different domains demonstrate that the proposed syntactic simplification approach outperforms the state of the art in structural text simplification. Moreover, an extrinsic evaluation shows that when applying our framework as a preprocessing step the performance of state-of-the-art Open IE systems can be improved by up to 346{\%} in precision and 52{\%} in recall. To enable reproducible research, all code is provided online.
A machine learning system can score well on a given test set by relying on heuristics that are effective for frequent example types but break down in more challenging cases. We study this issue within natural language inference (NLI), the task of determining whether one sentence entails another. We hypothesize that statistical NLI models may adopt three fallible syntactic heuristics: the lexical overlap heuristic, the subsequence heuristic, and the constituent heuristic. To determine whether models have adopted these heuristics, we introduce a controlled evaluation set called HANS (Heuristic Analysis for NLI Systems), which contains many examples where the heuristics fail. We find that models trained on MNLI, including BERT, a state-of-the-art model, perform very poorly on HANS, suggesting that they have indeed adopted these heuristics. We conclude that there is substantial room for improvement in NLI systems, and that the HANS dataset can motivate and measure progress in this area.
We present the zero-shot entity linking task, where mentions must be linked to unseen entities without in-domain labeled data. The goal is to enable robust transfer to highly specialized domains, and so no metadata or alias tables are assumed. In this setting, entities are only identified by text descriptions, and models must rely strictly on language understanding to resolve the new entities. First, we show that strong reading comprehension models pre-trained on large unlabeled data can be used to generalize to unseen entities. Second, we propose a simple and effective adaptive pre-training strategy, which we term domain-adaptive pre-training (DAP), to address the domain shift problem associated with linking unseen entities in a new domain. We present experiments on a new dataset that we construct for this task and show that DAP improves over strong pre-training baselines, including BERT. The data and code are available at https://github.com/lajanugen/zeshel.
We propose a new neural transfer method termed Dual Adversarial Transfer Network (DATNet) for addressing low-resource Named Entity Recognition (NER). Specifically, two variants of DATNet, i.e., DATNet-F and DATNet-P, are investigated to explore effective feature fusion between high and low resource. To address the noisy and imbalanced training data, we propose a novel Generalized Resource-Adversarial Discriminator (GRAD). Additionally, adversarial training is adopted to boost model generalization. In experiments, we examine the effects of different components in DATNet across domains and languages and show that significant improvement can be obtained especially for low-resource data, without augmenting any additional hand-crafted features and pre-trained language model.
Prior work has shown that, on small amounts of training data, syntactic neural language models learn structurally sensitive generalisations more successfully than sequential language models. However, their computational complexity renders scaling difficult, and it remains an open question whether structural biases are still necessary when sequential models have access to ever larger amounts of training data. To answer this question, we introduce an efficient knowledge distillation (KD) technique that transfers knowledge from a syntactic language model trained on a small corpus to an LSTM language model, hence enabling the LSTM to develop a more structurally sensitive representation of the larger training data it learns from. On targeted syntactic evaluations, we find that, while sequential LSTMs perform much better than previously reported, our proposed technique substantially improves on this baseline, yielding a new state of the art. Our findings and analysis affirm the importance of structural biases, even in models that learn from large amounts of data.
Recently, there has been an increasing interest in unsupervised parsers that optimize semantically oriented objectives, typically using reinforcement learning. Unfortunately, the learned trees often do not match actual syntax trees well. Shen et al. (2018) propose a structured attention mechanism for language modeling (PRPN), which induces better syntactic structures but relies on ad hoc heuristics. Also, their model lacks interpretability as it is not grounded in parsing actions. In our work, we propose an imitation learning approach to unsupervised parsing, where we transfer the syntactic knowledge induced by PRPN to a Tree-LSTM model with discrete parsing actions. Its policy is then refined by Gumbel-Softmax training towards a semantically oriented objective. We evaluate our approach on the All Natural Language Inference dataset and show that it achieves a new state of the art in terms of parsing F-score, outperforming our base models, including PRPN.
Several linguistic studies have shown the prevalence of various lexical and grammatical patterns in texts authored by a person of a particular gender, but models for part-of-speech tagging and dependency parsing have still not adapted to account for these differences. To address this, we annotate the Wall Street Journal part of the Penn Treebank with the gender information of the articles{'} authors, and build taggers and parsers trained on this data that show performance differences in text written by men and women. Further analyses reveal numerous part-of-speech tags and syntactic relations whose prediction performances benefit from the prevalence of a specific gender in the training data. The results underscore the importance of accounting for gendered differences in syntactic tasks, and outline future venues for developing more accurate taggers and parsers. We release our data to the research community.
We show that constituency parsing benefits from unsupervised pre-training across a variety of languages and a range of pre-training conditions. We first compare the benefits of no pre-training, fastText, ELMo, and BERT for English and find that BERT outperforms ELMo, in large part due to increased model capacity, whereas ELMo in turn outperforms the non-contextual fastText embeddings. We also find that pre-training is beneficial across all 11 languages tested; however, large model sizes (more than 100 million parameters) make it computationally expensive to train separate models for each language. To address this shortcoming, we show that joint multilingual pre-training and fine-tuning allows sharing all but a small number of parameters between ten languages in the final model. The 10x reduction in model size compared to fine-tuning one model per language causes only a 3.2{\%} relative error increase in aggregate. We further explore the idea of joint fine-tuning and show that it gives low-resource languages a way to benefit from the larger datasets of other languages. Finally, we demonstrate new state-of-the-art results for 11 languages, including English (95.8 F1) and Chinese (91.8 F1).
We present a new method for sentiment lexicon induction that is designed to be applicable to the entire range of typological diversity of the world{'}s languages. We evaluate our method on Parallel Bible Corpus+ (PBC+), a parallel corpus of 1593 languages. The key idea is to use Byte Pair Encodings (BPEs) as basic units for multilingual embeddings. Through zero-shot transfer from English sentiment, we learn a seed lexicon for each language in the domain of PBC+. Through domain adaptation, we then generalize the domain-specific lexicon to a general one. We show {--} across typologically diverse languages in PBC+ {--} good quality of seed and general-domain sentiment lexicons by intrinsic and extrinsic and by automatic and human evaluation. We make freely available our code, seed sentiment lexicons for all 1593 languages and induced general-domain sentiment lexicons for 200 languages.
Tree-LSTMs have been used for tree-based sentiment analysis over Stanford Sentiment Treebank, which allows the sentiment signals over hierarchical phrase structures to be calculated simultaneously. However, traditional tree-LSTMs capture only the bottom-up dependencies between constituents. In this paper, we propose a tree communication model using graph convolutional neural network and graph recurrent neural network, which allows rich information exchange between phrases constituent tree. Experiments show that our model outperforms existing work on bidirectional tree-LSTMs in both accuracy and efficiency, providing more consistent predictions on phrase-level sentiments.
Multilingual writers and speakers often alternate between two languages in a single discourse. This practice is called {``}code-switching{''}. Existing sentiment detection methods are usually trained on sentiment-labeled monolingual text. Manually labeled code-switched text, especially involving minority languages, is extremely rare. Consequently, the best monolingual methods perform relatively poorly on code-switched text. We present an effective technique for synthesizing labeled code-switched text from labeled monolingual text, which is relatively readily available. The idea is to replace carefully selected subtrees of constituency parses of sentences in the resource-rich language with suitable token spans selected from automatic translations to the resource-poor language. By augmenting the scarce labeled code-switched text with plentiful synthetic labeled code-switched text, we achieve significant improvements in sentiment labeling accuracy (1.5{\%}, 5.11{\%} 7.20{\%}) for three different language pairs (English-Hindi, English-Spanish and English-Bengali). The improvement is even significant in hatespeech detection whereby we achieve a 4{\%} improvement using only synthetic code-switched data (6{\%} with data augmentation).
Aspect term extraction (ATE) aims at identifying all aspect terms in a sentence and is usually modeled as a sequence labeling problem. However, sequence labeling based methods cannot make full use of the overall meaning of the whole sentence and have the limitation in processing dependencies between labels. To tackle these problems, we first explore to formalize ATE as a sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) learning task where the source sequence and target sequence are composed of words and labels respectively. At the same time, to make Seq2Seq learning suit to ATE where labels correspond to words one by one, we design the gated unit networks to incorporate corresponding word representation into the decoder, and position-aware attention to pay more attention to the adjacent words of a target word. The experimental results on two datasets show that Seq2Seq learning is effective in ATE accompanied with our proposed gated unit networks and position-aware attention mechanism.
In the literature, existing studies on aspect sentiment classification (ASC) focus on individual non-interactive reviews. This paper extends the research to interactive reviews and proposes a new research task, namely Aspect Sentiment Classification towards Question-Answering (ASC-QA), for real-world applications. This new task aims to predict sentiment polarities for specific aspects from interactive QA style reviews. In particular, a high-quality annotated corpus is constructed for ASC-QA to facilitate corresponding research. On this basis, a Reinforced Bidirectional Attention Network (RBAN) approach is proposed to address two inherent challenges in ASC-QA, i.e., semantic matching between question and answer, and data noise. Experimental results demonstrate the great advantage of the proposed approach to ASC-QA against several state-of-the-art baselines.
We introduce the first large-scale corpus for long form question answering, a task requiring elaborate and in-depth answers to open-ended questions. The dataset comprises 270K threads from the Reddit forum {``}Explain Like I{'}m Five{''} (ELI5) where an online community provides answers to questions which are comprehensible by five year olds. Compared to existing datasets, ELI5 comprises diverse questions requiring multi-sentence answers. We provide a large set of web documents to help answer the question. Automatic and human evaluations show that an abstractive model trained with a multi-task objective outperforms conventional Seq2Seq, language modeling, as well as a strong extractive baseline.However, our best model is still far from human performance since raters prefer gold responses in over 86{\%} of cases, leaving ample opportunity for future improvement.
In this work, we introduce a novel algorithm for solving the textbook question answering (TQA) task which describes more realistic QA problems compared to other recent tasks. We mainly focus on two related issues with analysis of the TQA dataset. First, solving the TQA problems requires to comprehend multi-modal contexts in complicated input data. To tackle this issue of extracting knowledge features from long text lessons and merging them with visual features, we establish a context graph from texts and images, and propose a new module f-GCN based on graph convolutional networks (GCN). Second, scientific terms are not spread over the chapters and subjects are split in the TQA dataset. To overcome this so called {`}out-of-domain{'} issue, before learning QA problems, we introduce a novel self-supervised open-set learning process without any annotations. The experimental results show that our model significantly outperforms prior state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, ablation studies validate that both methods of incorporating f-GCN for extracting knowledge from multi-modal contexts and our newly proposed self-supervised learning process are effective for TQA problems.
Visual question answering (VQA) and image captioning require a shared body of general knowledge connecting language and vision. We present a novel approach to better VQA performance that exploits this connection by jointly generating captions that are targeted to help answer a specific visual question. The model is trained using an existing caption dataset by automatically determining question-relevant captions using an online gradient-based method. Experimental results on the VQA v2 challenge demonstrates that our approach obtains state-of-the-art VQA performance (e.g. 68.4{\%} in the Test-standard set using a single model) by simultaneously generating question-relevant captions.
Attention mechanisms are widely used in Visual Question Answering (VQA) to search for visual clues related to the question. Most approaches train attention models from a coarse-grained association between sentences and images, which tends to fail on small objects or uncommon concepts. To address this problem, this paper proposes a multi-grained attention method. It learns explicit word-object correspondence by two types of word-level attention complementary to the sentence-image association. Evaluated on the VQA benchmark, the multi-grained attention model achieves competitive performance with state-of-the-art models. And the visualized attention maps demonstrate that addition of object-level groundings leads to a better understanding of the images and locates the attended objects more precisely.
We study the issue of catastrophic forgetting in the context of neural multimodal approaches to Visual Question Answering (VQA). Motivated by evidence from psycholinguistics, we devise a set of linguistically-informed VQA tasks, which differ by the types of questions involved (Wh-questions and polar questions). We test what impact task difficulty has on continual learning, and whether the order in which a child acquires question types facilitates computational models. Our results show that dramatic forgetting is at play and that task difficulty and order matter. Two well-known current continual learning methods mitigate the problem only to a limiting degree.
Paragraph-style image captions describe diverse aspects of an image as opposed to the more common single-sentence captions that only provide an abstract description of the image. These paragraph captions can hence contain substantial information of the image for tasks such as visual question answering. Moreover, this textual information is complementary with visual information present in the image because it can discuss both more abstract concepts and more explicit, intermediate symbolic information about objects, events, and scenes that can directly be matched with the textual question and copied into the textual answer (i.e., via easier modality match). Hence, we propose a combined Visual and Textual Question Answering (VTQA) model which takes as input a paragraph caption as well as the corresponding image, and answers the given question based on both inputs. In our model, the inputs are fused to extract related information by cross-attention (early fusion), then fused again in the form of consensus (late fusion), and finally expected answers are given an extra score to enhance the chance of selection (later fusion). Empirical results show that paragraph captions, even when automatically generated (via an RL-based encoder-decoder model), help correctly answer more visual questions. Overall, our joint model, when trained on the Visual Genome dataset, significantly improves the VQA performance over a strong baseline model.
Word embedding is central to neural machine translation (NMT), which has attracted intensive research interest in recent years. In NMT, the source embedding plays the role of the entrance while the target embedding acts as the terminal. These layers occupy most of the model parameters for representation learning. Furthermore, they indirectly interface via a soft-attention mechanism, which makes them comparatively isolated. In this paper, we propose shared-private bilingual word embeddings, which give a closer relationship between the source and target embeddings, and which also reduce the number of model parameters. For similar source and target words, their embeddings tend to share a part of the features and they cooperatively learn these common representation units. Experiments on 5 language pairs belonging to 6 different language families and written in 5 different alphabets demonstrate that the proposed model provides a significant performance boost over the strong baselines with dramatically fewer model parameters.
In this work we present a new dataset of literary events{---}events that are depicted as taking place within the imagined space of a novel. While previous work has focused on event detection in the domain of contemporary news, literature poses a number of complications for existing systems, including complex narration, the depiction of a broad array of mental states, and a strong emphasis on figurative language. We outline the annotation decisions of this new dataset and compare several models for predicting events; the best performing model, a bidirectional LSTM with BERT token representations, achieves an F1 score of 73.9. We then apply this model to a corpus of novels split across two dimensions{---}prestige and popularity{---}and demonstrate that there are statistically significant differences in the distribution of events for prestige.
Self-attention networks (SAN) have attracted a lot of interests due to their high parallelization and strong performance on a variety of NLP tasks, e.g. machine translation. Due to the lack of recurrence structure such as recurrent neural networks (RNN), SAN is ascribed to be weak at learning positional information of words for sequence modeling. However, neither this speculation has been empirically confirmed, nor explanations for their strong performances on machine translation tasks when {``}lacking positional information{''} have been explored. To this end, we propose a novel word reordering detection task to quantify how well the word order information learned by SAN and RNN. Specifically, we randomly move one word to another position, and examine whether a trained model can detect both the original and inserted positions. Experimental results reveal that: 1) SAN trained on word reordering detection indeed has difficulty learning the positional information even with the position embedding; and 2) SAN trained on machine translation learns better positional information than its RNN counterpart, in which position embedding plays a critical role. Although recurrence structure make the model more universally-effective on learning word order, learning objectives matter more in the downstream tasks such as machine translation.
Recent progress in hardware and methodology for training neural networks has ushered in a new generation of large networks trained on abundant data. These models have obtained notable gains in accuracy across many NLP tasks. However, these accuracy improvements depend on the availability of exceptionally large computational resources that necessitate similarly substantial energy consumption. As a result these models are costly to train and develop, both financially, due to the cost of hardware and electricity or cloud compute time, and environmentally, due to the carbon footprint required to fuel modern tensor processing hardware. In this paper we bring this issue to the attention of NLP researchers by quantifying the approximate financial and environmental costs of training a variety of recently successful neural network models for NLP. Based on these findings, we propose actionable recommendations to reduce costs and improve equity in NLP research and practice.
BERT is a recent language representation model that has surprisingly performed well in diverse language understanding benchmarks. This result indicates the possibility that BERT networks capture structural information about language. In this work, we provide novel support for this claim by performing a series of experiments to unpack the elements of English language structure learned by BERT. Our findings are fourfold. BERT{'}s phrasal representation captures the phrase-level information in the lower layers. The intermediate layers of BERT compose a rich hierarchy of linguistic information, starting with surface features at the bottom, syntactic features in the middle followed by semantic features at the top. BERT requires deeper layers while tracking subject-verb agreement to handle long-term dependency problem. Finally, the compositional scheme underlying BERT mimics classical, tree-like structures.
Online abusive behavior affects millions and the NLP community has attempted to mitigate this problem by developing technologies to detect abuse. However, current methods have largely focused on a narrow definition of abuse to detriment of victims who seek both validation and solutions. In this position paper, we argue that the community needs to make three substantive changes: (1) expanding our scope of problems to tackle both more subtle and more serious forms of abuse, (2) developing proactive technologies that counter or inhibit abuse before it harms, and (3) reframing our effort within a framework of justice to promote healthy communities.
The majority of conversations a dialogue agent sees over its lifetime occur after it has already been trained and deployed, leaving a vast store of potential training signal untapped. In this work, we propose the self-feeding chatbot, a dialogue agent with the ability to extract new training examples from the conversations it participates in. As our agent engages in conversation, it also estimates user satisfaction in its responses. When the conversation appears to be going well, the user{'}s responses become new training examples to imitate. When the agent believes it has made a mistake, it asks for feedback; learning to predict the feedback that will be given improves the chatbot{'}s dialogue abilities further. On the PersonaChat chit-chat dataset with over 131k training examples, we find that learning from dialogue with a self-feeding chatbot significantly improves performance, regardless of the amount of traditional supervision.
It is desirable for dialog systems to have capability to express specific emotions during a conversation, which has a direct, quantifiable impact on improvement of their usability and user satisfaction. After a careful investigation of real-life conversation data, we found that there are at least two ways to express emotions with language. One is to describe emotional states by explicitly using strong emotional words; another is to increase the intensity of the emotional experiences by implicitly combining neutral words in distinct ways. We propose an emotional dialogue system (EmoDS) that can generate the meaningful responses with a coherent structure for a post, and meanwhile express the desired emotion explicitly or implicitly within a unified framework. Experimental results showed EmoDS performed better than the baselines in BLEU, diversity and the quality of emotional expression.
Semantically controlled neural response generation on limited-domain has achieved great performance. However, moving towards multi-domain large-scale scenarios are shown to be difficult because the possible combinations of semantic inputs grow exponentially with the number of domains. To alleviate such scalability issue, we exploit the structure of dialog acts to build a multi-layer hierarchical graph, where each act is represented as a root-to-leaf route on the graph. Then, we incorporate such graph structure prior as an inductive bias to build a hierarchical disentangled self-attention network, where we disentangle attention heads to model designated nodes on the dialog act graph. By activating different (disentangled) heads at each layer, combinatorially many dialog act semantics can be modeled to control the neural response generation. On the large-scale Multi-Domain-WOZ dataset, our model can yield a significant improvement over the baselines on various automatic and human evaluation metrics.
Clarifying user needs is essential for existing task-oriented dialogue systems. However, in real-world applications, developers can never guarantee that all possible user demands are taken into account in the design phase. Consequently, existing systems will break down when encountering unconsidered user needs. To address this problem, we propose a novel incremental learning framework to design task-oriented dialogue systems, or for short Incremental Dialogue System (IDS), without pre-defining the exhaustive list of user needs. Specifically, we introduce an uncertainty estimation module to evaluate the confidence of giving correct responses. If there is high confidence, IDS will provide responses to users. Otherwise, humans will be involved in the dialogue process, and IDS can learn from human intervention through an online learning module. To evaluate our method, we propose a new dataset which simulates unanticipated user needs in the deployment stage. Experiments show that IDS is robust to unconsidered user actions, and can update itself online by smartly selecting only the most effective training data, and hence attains better performance with less annotation cost.
In multi-turn dialogue generation, response is usually related with only a few contexts. Therefore, an ideal model should be able to detect these relevant contexts and produce a suitable response accordingly. However, the widely used hierarchical recurrent encoder-decoder models just treat all the contexts indiscriminately, which may hurt the following response generation process. Some researchers try to use the cosine similarity or the traditional attention mechanism to find the relevant contexts, but they suffer from either insufficient relevance assumption or position bias problem. In this paper, we propose a new model, named ReCoSa, to tackle this problem. Firstly, a word level LSTM encoder is conducted to obtain the initial representation of each context. Then, the self-attention mechanism is utilized to update both the context and masked response representation. Finally, the attention weights between each context and response representations are computed and used in the further decoding process. Experimental results on both Chinese customer services dataset and English Ubuntu dialogue dataset show that ReCoSa significantly outperforms baseline models, in terms of both metric-based and human evaluations. Further analysis on attention shows that the detected relevant contexts by ReCoSa are highly coherent with human{'}s understanding, validating the correctness and interpretability of ReCoSa.
Consistency is a long standing issue faced by dialogue models. In this paper, we frame the consistency of dialogue agents as natural language inference (NLI) and create a new natural language inference dataset called Dialogue NLI. We propose a method which demonstrates that a model trained on Dialogue NLI can be used to improve the consistency of a dialogue model, and evaluate the method with human evaluation and with automatic metrics on a suite of evaluation sets designed to measure a dialogue model{'}s consistency.
This paper presents a new approach that extends Deep Dyna-Q (DDQ) by incorporating a Budget-Conscious Scheduling (BCS) to best utilize a fixed, small amount of user interactions (budget) for learning task-oriented dialogue agents. BCS consists of (1) a Poisson-based global scheduler to allocate budget over different stages of training; (2) a controller to decide at each training step whether the agent is trained using real or simulated experiences; (3) a user goal sampling module to generate the experiences that are most effective for policy learning. Experiments on a movie-ticket booking task with simulated and real users show that our approach leads to significant improvements in success rate over the state-of-the-art baselines given the fixed budget.
While conditional language models have greatly improved in their ability to output high quality natural language, many NLP applications benefit from being able to generate a diverse set of candidate sequences. Diverse decoding strategies aim to, within a given-sized candidate list, cover as much of the space of high-quality outputs as possible, leading to improvements for tasks that rerank and combine candidate outputs. Standard decoding methods, such as beam search, optimize for generating high likelihood sequences rather than diverse ones, though recent work has focused on increasing diversity in these methods. In this work, we perform an extensive survey of decoding-time strategies for generating diverse outputs from a conditional language model. In addition, we present a novel method where we over-sample candidates, then use clustering to remove similar sequences, thus achieving high diversity without sacrificing quality.
Dialogue systems are usually built on either generation-based or retrieval-based approaches, yet they do not benefit from the advantages of different models. In this paper, we propose a Retrieval-Enhanced Adversarial Training (REAT) method for neural response generation. Distinct from existing approaches, the REAT method leverages an encoder-decoder framework in terms of an adversarial training paradigm, while taking advantage of N-best response candidates from a retrieval-based system to construct the discriminator. An empirical study on a large scale public available benchmark dataset shows that the REAT method significantly outperforms the vanilla Seq2Seq model as well as the conventional adversarial training approach.
We study the task of response generation. Conventional methods employ a fixed vocabulary and one-pass decoding, which not only make them prone to safe and general responses but also lack further refining to the first generated raw sequence. To tackle the above two problems, we present a Vocabulary Pyramid Network (VPN) which is able to incorporate multi-pass encoding and decoding with multi-level vocabularies into response generation. Specifically, the dialogue input and output are represented by multi-level vocabularies which are obtained from hierarchical clustering of raw words. Then, multi-pass encoding and decoding are conducted on the multi-level vocabularies. Since VPN is able to leverage rich encoding and decoding information with multi-level vocabularies, it has the potential to generate better responses. Experiments on English Twitter and Chinese Weibo datasets demonstrate that VPN remarkably outperforms strong baselines.
A challenging problem in on-device text classification is to build highly accurate neural models that can fit in small memory footprint and have low latency. To address this challenge, we propose an on-device neural network SGNN++ which dynamically learns compact projection vectors from raw text using structured and context-dependent partition projections. We show that this results in accelerated inference and performance improvements. We conduct extensive evaluation on multiple conversational tasks and languages such as English, Japanese, Spanish and French. Our SGNN++ model significantly outperforms all baselines, improves upon existing on-device neural models and even surpasses RNN, CNN and BiLSTM models on dialog act and intent prediction. Through a series of ablation studies we show the impact of the partitioned projections and structured information leading to 10{\%} improvement. We study the impact of the model size on accuracy and introduce quatization-aware training for SGNN++ to further reduce the model size while preserving the same quality. Finally, we show fast inference on mobile phones.
Though great progress has been made for human-machine conversation, current dialogue system is still in its infancy: it usually converses passively and utters words more as a matter of response, rather than on its own initiatives. In this paper, we take a radical step towards building a human-like conversational agent: endowing it with the ability of proactively leading the conversation (introducing a new topic or maintaining the current topic). To facilitate the development of such conversation systems, we create a new dataset named Konv where one acts as a conversation leader and the other acts as the follower. The leader is provided with a knowledge graph and asked to sequentially change the discussion topics, following the given conversation goal, and meanwhile keep the dialogue as natural and engaging as possible. Konv enables a very challenging task as the model needs to both understand dialogue and plan over the given knowledge graph. We establish baseline results on this dataset (about 270K utterances and 30k dialogues) using several state-of-the-art models. Experimental results show that dialogue models that plan over the knowledge graph can make full use of related knowledge to generate more diverse multi-turn conversations. The baseline systems along with the dataset are publicly available.
We study learning of a matching model for response selection in retrieval-based dialogue systems. The problem is equally important with designing the architecture of a model, but is less explored in existing literature. To learn a robust matching model from noisy training data, we propose a general co-teaching framework with three specific teaching strategies that cover both teaching with loss functions and teaching with data curriculum. Under the framework, we simultaneously learn two matching models with independent training sets. In each iteration, one model transfers the knowledge learned from its training set to the other model, and at the same time receives the guide from the other model on how to overcome noise in training. Through being both a teacher and a student, the two models learn from each other and get improved together. Evaluation results on two public data sets indicate that the proposed learning approach can generally and significantly improve the performance of existing matching models.
Neural generative models for open-domain chit-chat conversations have become an active area of research in recent years. A critical issue with most existing generative models is that the generated responses lack informativeness and diversity. A few researchers attempt to leverage the results of retrieval models to strengthen the generative models, but these models are limited by the quality of the retrieval results. In this work, we propose a memory-augmented generative model, which learns to abstract from the training corpus and saves the useful information to the memory to assist the response generation. Our model clusters query-response samples, extracts characteristics of each cluster, and learns to utilize these characteristics for response generation. Experimental results show that our model outperforms other competitive baselines.
Due to its potential applications, open-domain dialogue generation has become popular and achieved remarkable progress in recent years, but sometimes suffers from generic responses. Previous models are generally trained based on 1-to-1 mapping from an input query to its response, which actually ignores the nature of 1-to-n mapping in dialogue that there may exist multiple valid responses corresponding to the same query. In this paper, we propose to utilize the multiple references by considering the correlation of different valid responses and modeling the 1-to-n mapping with a novel two-step generation architecture. The first generation phase extracts the common features of different responses which, combined with distinctive features obtained in the second phase, can generate multiple diverse and appropriate responses. Experimental results show that our proposed model can effectively improve the quality of response and outperform existing neural dialogue models on both automatic and human evaluations.
This paper examines various unsupervised pretraining objectives for learning dialog context representations. Two novel methods of pretraining dialog context encoders are proposed, and a total of four methods are examined. Each pretraining objective is fine-tuned and evaluated on a set of downstream dialog tasks using the MultiWoz dataset and strong performance improvement is observed. Further evaluation shows that our pretraining objectives result in not only better performance, but also better convergence, models that are less data hungry and have better domain generalizability.
Disentangling conversations mixed together in a single stream of messages is a difficult task, made harder by the lack of large manually annotated datasets. We created a new dataset of 77,563 messages manually annotated with reply-structure graphs that both disentangle conversations and define internal conversation structure. Our data is 16 times larger than all previously released datasets combined, the first to include adjudication of annotation disagreements, and the first to include context. We use our data to re-examine prior work, in particular, finding that 89{\%} of conversations in a widely used dialogue corpus are either missing messages or contain extra messages. Our manually-annotated data presents an opportunity to develop robust data-driven methods for conversation disentanglement, which will help advance dialogue research.
The sequential order of utterances is often meaningful in coherent dialogues, and the order changes of utterances could lead to low-quality and incoherent conversations. We consider the order information as a crucial supervised signal for dialogue learning, which, however, has been neglected by many previous dialogue systems. Therefore, in this paper, we introduce a self-supervised learning task, inconsistent order detection, to explicitly capture the flow of conversation in dialogues. Given a sampled utterance pair triple, the task is to predict whether it is ordered or misordered. Then we propose a sampling-based self-supervised network SSN to perform the prediction with sampled triple references from previous dialogue history. Furthermore, we design a joint learning framework where SSN can guide the dialogue systems towards more coherent and relevant dialogue learning through adversarial training. We demonstrate that the proposed methods can be applied to both open-domain and task-oriented dialogue scenarios, and achieve the new state-of-the-art performance on the OpenSubtitiles and Movie-Ticket Booking datasets.
The cognitive mechanisms needed to account for the English past tense have long been a subject of debate in linguistics and cognitive science. Neural network models were proposed early on, but were shown to have clear flaws. Recently, however, Kirov and Cotterell (2018) showed that modern encoder-decoder (ED) models overcome many of these flaws. They also presented evidence that ED models demonstrate humanlike performance in a nonce-word task. Here, we look more closely at the behaviour of their model in this task. We find that (1) the model exhibits instability across multiple simulations in terms of its correlation with human data, and (2) even when results are aggregated across simulations (treating each simulation as an individual human participant), the fit to the human data is not strong{---}worse than an older rule-based model. These findings hold up through several alternative training regimes and evaluation measures. Although other neural architectures might do better, we conclude that there is still insufficient evidence to claim that neural nets are a good cognitive model for this task.
We propose an unsupervised approach for assessing conceptual complexity of texts, based on spreading activation. Using DBpedia knowledge graph as a proxy to long-term memory, mentioned concepts become activated and trigger further activation as the text is sequentially traversed. Drawing inspiration from psycholinguistic theories of reading comprehension, we model memory processes such as semantic priming, sentence wrap-up, and forgetting. We show that our models capture various aspects of conceptual text complexity and significantly outperform current state of the art.
End-to-end training with Deep Neural Networks (DNN) is a currently popular method for metaphor identification. However, standard sequence tagging models do not explicitly take advantage of linguistic theories of metaphor identification. We experiment with two DNN models which are inspired by two human metaphor identification procedures. By testing on three public datasets, we find that our models achieve state-of-the-art performance in end-to-end metaphor identification.
Diachronic word embeddings have been widely used in detecting temporal changes. However, existing methods face the meaning conflation deficiency by representing a word as a single vector at each time period. To address this issue, this paper proposes a sense representation and tracking framework based on deep contextualized embeddings, aiming at answering not only what and when, but also how the word meaning changes. The experiments show that our framework is effective in representing fine-grained word senses, and it brings a significant improvement in word change detection task. Furthermore, we model the word change from an ecological viewpoint, and sketch two interesting sense behaviors in the process of language evolution, i.e. sense competition and sense cooperation.
Lake and Baroni (2018) introduced the SCAN dataset probing the ability of seq2seq models to capture compositional generalizations, such as inferring the meaning of {``}jump around{''} 0-shot from the component words. Recurrent networks (RNNs) were found to completely fail the most challenging generalization cases. We test here a convolutional network (CNN) on these tasks, reporting hugely improved performance with respect to RNNs. Despite the big improvement, the CNN has however not induced systematic rules, suggesting that the difference between compositional and non-compositional behaviour is not clear-cut.
The study of linguistic typology is rooted in the implications we find between linguistic features, such as the fact that languages with object-verb word ordering tend to have postpositions. Uncovering such implications typically amounts to time-consuming manual processing by trained and experienced linguists, which potentially leaves key linguistic universals unexplored. In this paper, we present a computational model which successfully identifies known universals, including Greenberg universals, but also uncovers new ones, worthy of further linguistic investigation. Our approach outperforms baselines previously used for this problem, as well as a strong baseline from knowledge base population.
When learning language, infants need to break down the flow of input speech into minimal word-like units, a process best described as unsupervised bottom-up segmentation. Proposed strategies include several segmentation algorithms, but only cross-linguistically robust algorithms could be plausible candidates for human word learning, since infants have no initial knowledge of the ambient language. We report on the stability in performance of 11 conceptually diverse algorithms on a selection of 8 typologically distinct languages. The results consist evidence that some segmentation algorithms are cross-linguistically valid, thus could be considered as potential strategies employed by all infants.
Embedding a clause inside another ({``}the girl [who likes cars [that run fast]] has arrived{''}) is a fundamental resource that has been argued to be a key driver of linguistic expressiveness. As such, it plays a central role in fundamental debates on what makes human language unique, and how they might have evolved. Empirical evidence on the prevalence and the limits of embeddings has however been based on either laboratory setups or corpus data of relatively limited size. We introduce here a collection of large, dependency-parsed written corpora in 17 languages, that allow us, for the first time, to capture clausal embedding through dependency graphs and assess their distribution. Our results indicate that there is no evidence for hard constraints on embedding depth: the tail of depth distributions is heavy. Moreover, although deeply embedded clauses tend to be shorter, suggesting processing load issues, complex sentences with many embeddings do not display a bias towards less deep embeddings. Taken together, the results suggest that deep embeddings are not disfavoured in written language. More generally, our study illustrates how resources and methods from latest-generation big-data NLP can provide new perspectives on fundamental questions in theoretical linguistics.
In this paper, we present a novel approach for incorporating external knowledge in Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). We propose the integration of lexicon features into the self-attention mechanism of RNN-based architectures. This form of conditioning on the attention distribution, enforces the contribution of the most salient words for the task at hand. We introduce three methods, namely attentional concatenation, feature-based gating and affine transformation. Experiments on six benchmark datasets show the effectiveness of our methods. Attentional feature-based gating yields consistent performance improvement across tasks. Our approach is implemented as a simple add-on module for RNN-based models with minimal computational overhead and can be adapted to any deep neural architecture.
We introduce a new benchmark for coreference resolution and NLI, KnowRef, that targets common-sense understanding and world knowledge. Previous coreference resolution tasks can largely be solved by exploiting the number and gender of the antecedents, or have been handcrafted and do not reflect the diversity of naturally occurring text. We present a corpus of over 8,000 annotated text passages with ambiguous pronominal anaphora. These instances are both challenging and realistic. We show that various coreference systems, whether rule-based, feature-rich, or neural, perform significantly worse on the task than humans, who display high inter-annotator agreement. To explain this performance gap, we show empirically that state-of-the art models often fail to capture context, instead relying on the gender or number of candidate antecedents to make a decision. We then use problem-specific insights to propose a data-augmentation trick called antecedent switching to alleviate this tendency in models. Finally, we show that antecedent switching yields promising results on other tasks as well: we use it to achieve state-of-the-art results on the GAP coreference task.
Wikipedia can easily be justified as a behemoth, considering the sheer volume of content that is added or removed every minute to its several projects. This creates an immense scope, in the field of natural language processing toward developing automated tools for content moderation and review. In this paper we propose Self Attentive Revision Encoder (StRE) which leverages orthographic similarity of lexical units toward predicting the quality of new edits. In contrast to existing propositions which primarily employ features like page reputation, editor activity or rule based heuristics, we utilize the textual content of the edits which, we believe contains superior signatures of their quality. More specifically, we deploy deep encoders to generate representations of the edits from its text content, which we then leverage to infer quality. We further contribute a novel dataset containing ∼ 21M revisions across 32K Wikipedia pages and demonstrate that StRE outperforms existing methods by a significant margin {--} at least 17{\%} and at most 103{\%}. Our pre-trained model achieves such result after retraining on a set as small as 20{\%} of the edits in a wikipage. This, to the best of our knowledge, is also the first attempt towards employing deep language models to the enormous domain of automated content moderation and review in Wikipedia.
Most current NLP systems have little knowledge about quantitative attributes of objects and events. We propose an unsupervised method for collecting quantitative information from large amounts of web data, and use it to create a new, very large resource consisting of distributions over physical quantities associated with objects, adjectives, and verbs which we call Distributions over Quantitative (DoQ). This contrasts with recent work in this area which has focused on making only relative comparisons such as {``}Is a lion bigger than a wolf?{''}. Our evaluation shows that DoQ compares favorably with state of the art results on existing datasets for relative comparisons of nouns and adjectives, and on a new dataset we introduce.
Sentence function is an important linguistic feature referring to a user{'}s purpose in uttering a specific sentence. The use of sentence function has shown promising results to improve the performance of conversation models. However, there is no large conversation dataset annotated with sentence functions. In this work, we collect a new Short-Text Conversation dataset with manually annotated SEntence FUNctions (STC-Sefun). Classification models are trained on this dataset to (i) recognize the sentence function of new data in a large corpus of short-text conversations; (ii) estimate a proper sentence function of the response given a test query. We later train conversation models conditioned on the sentence functions, including information retrieval-based and neural generative models. Experimental results demonstrate that the use of sentence functions can help improve the quality of the returned responses.
While the vast majority of existing work on automated essay scoring has focused on holistic scoring, researchers have recently begun work on scoring specific dimensions of essay quality. Nevertheless, progress on dimension-specific essay scoring is limited in part by the lack of annotated corpora. To facilitate advances in this area, we design a scoring rubric for scoring a core, yet unexplored dimension of persuasive essay quality, thesis strength, and annotate a corpus of essays with thesis strength scores. We additionally identify the attributes that could impact thesis strength and annotate the essays with the values of these attributes, which, when predicted by computational models, could provide further feedback to students on why her essay receives a particular thesis strength score.
Sentiment analysis has a range of corpora available across multiple languages. For emotion analysis, the situation is more limited, which hinders potential research on crosslingual modeling and the development of predictive models for other languages. In this paper, we fill this gap for German by constructing deISEAR, a corpus designed in analogy to the well-established English ISEAR emotion dataset. Motivated by Scherer{'}s appraisal theory, we implement a crowdsourcing experiment which consists of two steps. In step 1, participants create descriptions of emotional events for a given emotion. In step 2, five annotators assess the emotion expressed by the texts. We show that transferring an emotion classification model from the original English ISEAR to the German crowdsourced deISEAR via machine translation does not, on average, cause a performance drop.
This paper presents a new multilingual corpus with semantic annotation of collocations in English, Portuguese, and Spanish. The whole resource contains 155k tokens and 1,526 collocations labeled in context. The annotated examples belong to three syntactic relations (adjective-noun, verb-object, and nominal compounds), and represent 58 lexical functions in the Meaning-Text Theory (e.g., Oper, Magn, Bon, etc.). Each collocation was annotated by three linguists and the final resource was revised by a team of experts. The resulting corpus can serve as a basis to evaluate different approaches for collocation identification, which in turn can be useful for different NLP tasks such as natural language understanding or natural language generation.
Introducing common sense to natural language understanding systems has received increasing research attention. It remains a fundamental question on how to evaluate whether a system has the sense-making capability. Existing benchmarks measure common sense knowledge indirectly or without reasoning. In this paper, we release a benchmark to directly test whether a system can differentiate natural language statements that make sense from those that do not make sense. In addition, a system is asked to identify the most crucial reason why a statement does not make sense. We evaluate models trained over large-scale language modeling tasks as well as human performance, showing that there are different challenges for system sense-making.
The task of humor recognition has attracted a lot of attention recently due to the urge to process large amounts of user-generated texts and rise of conversational agents. We collected a dataset of jokes and funny dialogues in Russian from various online resources and complemented them carefully with unfunny texts with similar lexical properties. The dataset comprises of more than 300,000 short texts, which is significantly larger than any previous humor-related corpus. Manual annotation of 2,000 items proved the reliability of the corpus construction approach. Further, we applied language model fine-tuning for text classification and obtained an F1 score of 0.91 on a test set, which constitutes a considerable gain over baseline methods. The dataset is freely available for research community.
When a bilingual student learns to solve word problems in math, we expect the student to be able to solve these problem in both languages the student is fluent in, even if the math lessons were only taught in one language. However, current representations in machine learning are language dependent. In this work, we present a method to decouple the language from the problem by learning language agnostic representations and therefore allowing training a model in one language and applying to a different one in a zero shot fashion. We learn these representations by taking inspiration from linguistics, specifically the Universal Grammar hypothesis and learn universal latent representations that are language agnostic. We demonstrate the capabilities of these representations by showing that models trained on a single language using language agnostic representations achieve very similar accuracies in other languages.
Short texts such as tweets often contain insufficient word co-occurrence information for training conventional topic models. To deal with the insufficiency, we propose a generative model that aggregates short texts into clusters by leveraging the associated meta information. Our model can generate more interpretable topics as well as document clusters. We develop an effective Gibbs sampling algorithm favoured by the fully local conjugacy in the model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our model achieves better performance in terms of document clustering and topic coherence.
Encoder-decoder models for unsupervised sentence representation learning using the distributional hypothesis effectively constrain the learnt representation of a sentence to only that needed to reproduce the next sentence. While the decoder is important to constrain the representation, these models tend to discard the decoder after training since only the encoder is needed to map the input sentence into a vector representation. However, parameters learnt in the decoder also contain useful information about the language. In order to utilise the decoder after learning, we present two types of decoding functions whose inverse can be easily derived without expensive inverse calculation. Therefore, the inverse of the decoding function serves as another encoder that produces sentence representations. We show that, with careful design of the decoding functions, the model learns good sentence representations, and the ensemble of the representations produced from the encoder and the inverse of the decoder demonstrate even better generalisation ability and solid transferability.
There exist few text-specific methods for unsupervised anomaly detection, and for those that do exist, none utilize pre-trained models for distributed vector representations of words. In this paper we introduce a new anomaly detection method{---}Context Vector Data Description (CVDD){---}which builds upon word embedding models to learn multiple sentence representations that capture multiple semantic contexts via the self-attention mechanism. Modeling multiple contexts enables us to perform contextual anomaly detection of sentences and phrases with respect to the multiple themes and concepts present in an unlabeled text corpus. These contexts in combination with the self-attention weights make our method highly interpretable. We demonstrate the effectiveness of CVDD quantitatively as well as qualitatively on the well-known Reuters, 20 Newsgroups, and IMDB Movie Reviews datasets.
Bilingual Lexicon Induction (BLI) is the task of translating words from corpora in two languages. Recent advances in BLI work by aligning the two word embedding spaces. Following that, a key step is to retrieve the nearest neighbor (NN) in the target space given the source word. However, a phenomenon called hubness often degrades the accuracy of NN. Hubness appears as some data points, called hubs, being extra-ordinarily close to many of the other data points. Reducing hubness is necessary for retrieval tasks. One successful example is Inverted SoFtmax (ISF), recently proposed to improve NN. This work proposes a new method, Hubless Nearest Neighbor (HNN), to mitigate hubness. HNN differs from NN by imposing an additional equal preference assumption. Moreover, the HNN formulation explains why ISF works as well as it does. Empirical results demonstrate that HNN outperforms NN, ISF and other state-of-the-art. For reproducibility and follow-ups, we have published all code.
Accurate entity linkers have been produced for domains and languages where annotated data (i.e., texts linked to a knowledge base) is available. However, little progress has been made for the settings where no or very limited amounts of labeled data are present (e.g., legal or most scientific domains). In this work, we show how we can learn to link mentions without having any labeled examples, only a knowledge base and a collection of unannotated texts from the corresponding domain. In order to achieve this, we frame the task as a multi-instance learning problem and rely on surface matching to create initial noisy labels. As the learning signal is weak and our surrogate labels are noisy, we introduce a noise detection component in our model: it lets the model detect and disregard examples which are likely to be noisy. Our method, jointly learning to detect noise and link entities, greatly outperforms the surface matching baseline. For a subset of entity categories, it even approaches the performance of supervised learning.
Heuristic-based active learning (AL) methods are limited when the data distribution of the underlying learning problems vary. Recent data-driven AL policy learning methods are also restricted to learn from closely related domains. We introduce a new sample-efficient method that learns the AL policy directly on the target domain of interest by using wake and dream cycles. Our approach interleaves between querying the annotation of the selected datapoints to update the underlying student learner and improving AL policy using simulation where the current student learner acts as an imperfect annotator. We evaluate our method on cross-domain and cross-lingual text classification and named entity recognition tasks. Experimental results show that our dream-based AL policy training strategy is more effective than applying the pretrained policy without further fine-tuning and better than the existing strong baseline methods that use heuristics or reinforcement learning.
Existing approaches for learning word embedding often assume there are sufficient occurrences for each word in the corpus, such that the representation of words can be accurately estimated from their contexts. However, in real-world scenarios, out-of-vocabulary (a.k.a. OOV) words that do not appear in training corpus emerge frequently. How to learn accurate representations of these words to augment a pre-trained embedding by only a few observations is a challenging research problem. In this paper, we formulate the learning of OOV embedding as a few-shot regression problem by fitting a representation function to predict an oracle embedding vector (defined as embedding trained with abundant observations) based on limited contexts. Specifically, we propose a novel hierarchical attention network-based embedding framework to serve as the neural regression function, in which the context information of a word is encoded and aggregated from K observations. Furthermore, we propose to use Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML) for adapting the learned model to the new corpus fast and robustly. Experiments show that the proposed approach significantly outperforms existing methods in constructing an accurate embedding for OOV words and improves downstream tasks when the embedding is utilized.
Language usage can change across periods of time, but document classifiers models are usually trained and tested on corpora spanning multiple years without considering temporal variations. This paper describes two complementary ways to adapt classifiers to shifts across time. First, we show that diachronic word embeddings, which were originally developed to study language change, can also improve document classification, and we show a simple method for constructing this type of embedding. Second, we propose a time-driven neural classification model inspired by methods for domain adaptation. Experiments on six corpora show how these methods can make classifiers more robust over time.
Learning representations such that the source and target distributions appear as similar as possible has benefited transfer learning tasks across several applications. Generally it requires labeled data from the source and only unlabeled data from the target to learn such representations. While these representations act like a bridge to transfer knowledge learned in the source to the target; they may lead to negative transfer when the source specific characteristics detract their ability to represent the target data. We present a novel neural network architecture to simultaneously learn a two-part representation which is based on the principle of segregating source specific representation from the common representation. The first part captures the source specific characteristics while the second part captures the truly common representation. Our architecture optimizes an objective function which acts adversarial for the source specific part if it contributes towards the cross-domain learning. We empirically show that two parts of the representation, in different arrangements, outperforms existing learning algorithms on the source learning as well as cross-domain tasks on multiple datasets.
Direct comparison on point estimation of the precision (P), recall (R), and F1 measure of two natural language processing (NLP) models on a common test corpus is unreasonable and results in less replicable conclusions due to a lack of a statistical test. However, the existing t-tests in cross-validation (CV) for model comparison are inappropriate because the distributions of P, R, F1 are skewed and an interval estimation of P, R, and F1 based on a t-test may exceed [0,1]. In this study, we propose to use a block-regularized 3{\mbox{$\times$}}2 CV (3{\mbox{$\times$}}2 BCV) in model comparison because it could regularize the difference in certain frequency distributions over linguistic units between training and validation sets and yield stable estimators of P, R, and F1. On the basis of the 3{\mbox{$\times$}}2 BCV, we calibrate the posterior distributions of P, R, and F1 and derive an accurate interval estimation of P, R, and F1. Furthermore, we formulate the comparison into a hypothesis testing problem and propose a novel Bayes test. The test could directly compute the probabilities of the hypotheses on the basis of the posterior distributions and provide more informative decisions than the existing significance t-tests. Three experiments with regard to NLP chunking tasks are conducted, and the results illustrate the validity of the Bayes test.
Text infilling aims at filling in the missing part of a sentence or paragraph, which has been applied to a variety of real-world natural language generation scenarios. Given a well-trained sequential generative model, it is challenging for its unidirectional decoder to generate missing symbols conditioned on the past and future information around the missing part. In this paper, we propose an iterative inference algorithm based on gradient search, which could be the first inference algorithm that can be broadly applied to any neural sequence generative models for text infilling tasks. Extensive experimental comparisons show the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method on three different text infilling tasks with various mask ratios and different mask strategies, comparing with five state-of-the-art methods.
We introduce the Scratchpad Mechanism, a novel addition to the sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) neural network architecture and demonstrate its effectiveness in improving the overall fluency of seq2seq models for natural language generation tasks. By enabling the decoder at each time step to write to all of the encoder output layers, Scratchpad can employ the encoder as a {``}scratchpad{''} memory to keep track of what has been generated so far and thereby guide future generation. We evaluate Scratchpad in the context of three well-studied natural language generation tasks {---} Machine Translation, Question Generation, and Text Summarization {---} and obtain state-of-the-art or comparable performance on standard datasets for each task. Qualitative assessments in the form of human judgements (question generation), attention visualization (MT), and sample output (summarization) provide further evidence of the ability of Scratchpad to generate fluent and expressive output.
The common practice in coreference resolution is to identify and evaluate the maximum span of mentions. The use of maximum spans tangles coreference evaluation with the challenges of mention boundary detection like prepositional phrase attachment. To address this problem, minimum spans are manually annotated in smaller corpora. However, this additional annotation is costly and therefore, this solution does not scale to large corpora. In this paper, we propose the MINA algorithm for automatically extracting minimum spans to benefit from minimum span evaluation in all corpora. We show that the extracted minimum spans by MINA are consistent with those that are manually annotated by experts. Our experiments show that using minimum spans is in particular important in cross-dataset coreference evaluation, in which detected mention boundaries are noisier due to domain shift. We have integrated MINA into https://github.com/ns-moosavi/coval for reporting standard coreference scores based on both maximum and automatically detected minimum spans.
Recognizing coreferring events and entities across multiple texts is crucial for many NLP applications. Despite the task{'}s importance, research focus was given mostly to within-document entity coreference, with rather little attention to the other variants. We propose a neural architecture for cross-document coreference resolution. Inspired by Lee et al. (2012), we jointly model entity and event coreference. We represent an event (entity) mention using its lexical span, surrounding context, and relation to entity (event) mentions via predicate-arguments structures. Our model outperforms the previous state-of-the-art event coreference model on ECB+, while providing the first entity coreference results on this corpus. Our analysis confirms that all our representation elements, including the mention span itself, its context, and the relation to other mentions contribute to the model{'}s success.
We propose an efficient neural framework for sentence-level discourse analysis in accordance with Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST). Our framework comprises a discourse segmenter to identify the elementary discourse units (EDU) in a text, and a discourse parser that constructs a discourse tree in a top-down fashion. Both the segmenter and the parser are based on Pointer Networks and operate in linear time. Our segmenter yields an F1 score of 95.4{\%}, and our parser achieves an F1 score of 81.7{\%} on the aggregated labeled (relation) metric, surpassing previous approaches by a good margin and approaching human agreement on both tasks (98.3 and 83.0 F1).
It has been shown that implicit connectives can be exploited to improve the performance of the models for implicit discourse relation recognition (IDRR). An important property of the implicit connectives is that they can be accurately mapped into the discourse relations conveying their functions. In this work, we explore this property in a multi-task learning framework for IDRR in which the relations and the connectives are simultaneously predicted, and the mapping is leveraged to transfer knowledge between the two prediction tasks via the embeddings of relations and connectives. We propose several techniques to enable such knowledge transfer that yield the state-of-the-art performance for IDRR on several settings of the benchmark dataset (i.e., the Penn Discourse Treebank dataset).
When a speaker, Mary, asks {``}Do you know that Florence is packed with visitors?{''}, we take her to believe that Florence is packed with visitors, but not if she asks {``}Do you think that Florence is packed with visitors?{''}. Inferring speaker commitment (aka event factuality) is crucial for information extraction and question answering. Here, we explore the hypothesis that linguistic deficits drive the error patterns of existing speaker commitment models by analyzing the linguistic correlates of model error on a challenging naturalistic dataset. We evaluate two state-of-the-art speaker commitment models on the CommitmentBank, an English dataset of naturally occurring discourses. The CommitmentBank is annotated with speaker commitment towards the content of the complement ({``}Florence is packed with visitors{''} in our example) of clause-embedding verbs ({``}know{''}, {``}think{''}) under four entailment-canceling environments (negation, modal, question, conditional). A breakdown of items by linguistic features reveals asymmetrical error patterns: while the models achieve good performance on some classes (e.g., negation), they fail to generalize to the diverse linguistic constructions (e.g., conditionals) in natural language, highlighting directions for improvement.
Modeling script knowledge can be useful for a wide range of NLP tasks. Current statistical script learning approaches embed the events, such that their relationships are indicated by their similarity in the embedding. While intuitive, these approaches fall short of representing nuanced relations, needed for downstream tasks. In this paper, we suggest to view learning event embedding as a multi-relational problem, which allows us to capture different aspects of event pairs. We model a rich set of event relations, such as Cause and Contrast, derived from the Penn Discourse Tree Bank. We evaluate our model on three types of tasks, the popular Mutli-Choice Narrative Cloze and its variants, several multi-relational prediction tasks, and a related downstream task{---}implicit discourse sense classification.
In this paper, we propose a method for why-question answering (why-QA) that uses an adversarial learning framework. Existing why-QA methods retrieve {``}answer passages{''} that usually consist of several sentences. These multi-sentence passages contain not only the reason sought by a why-question and its connection to the why-question, but also redundant and/or unrelated parts. We use our proposed {``}Adversarial networks for Generating compact-answer Representation{''} (AGR) to generate from a passage a vector representation of the non-redundant reason sought by a why-question and exploit the representation for judging whether the passage actually answers the why-question. Through a series of experiments using Japanese why-QA datasets, we show that these representations improve the performance of our why-QA neural model as well as that of a BERT-based why-QA model. We show that they also improve a state-of-the-art distantly supervised open-domain QA (DS-QA) method on publicly available English datasets, even though the target task is not a why-QA.
Machine reading comprehension with unanswerable questions is a challenging task. In this work, we propose a data augmentation technique by automatically generating relevant unanswerable questions according to an answerable question paired with its corresponding paragraph that contains the answer. We introduce a pair-to-sequence model for unanswerable question generation, which effectively captures the interactions between the question and the paragraph. We also present a way to construct training data for our question generation models by leveraging the existing reading comprehension dataset. Experimental results show that the pair-to-sequence model performs consistently better compared with the sequence-to-sequence baseline. We further use the automatically generated unanswerable questions as a means of data augmentation on the SQuAD 2.0 dataset, yielding 1.9 absolute F1 improvement with BERT-base model and 1.7 absolute F1 improvement with BERT-large model.
Multi-hop reading comprehension (RC) questions are challenging because they require reading and reasoning over multiple paragraphs. We argue that it can be difficult to construct large multi-hop RC datasets. For example, even highly compositional questions can be answered with a single hop if they target specific entity types, or the facts needed to answer them are redundant. Our analysis is centered on HotpotQA, where we show that single-hop reasoning can solve much more of the dataset than previously thought. We introduce a single-hop BERT-based RC model that achieves 67 F1{---}comparable to state-of-the-art multi-hop models. We also design an evaluation setting where humans are not shown all of the necessary paragraphs for the intended multi-hop reasoning but can still answer over 80{\%} of questions. Together with detailed error analysis, these results suggest there should be an increasing focus on the role of evidence in multi-hop reasoning and possibly even a shift towards information retrieval style evaluations with large and diverse evidence collections.
We propose a new end-to-end question answering model, which learns to aggregate answer evidence from an incomplete knowledge base (KB) and a set of retrieved text snippets.Under the assumptions that structured data is easier to query and the acquired knowledge can help the understanding of unstructured text, our model first accumulates knowledge ofKB entities from a question-related KB sub-graph; then reformulates the question in the latent space and reads the text with the accumulated entity knowledge at hand. The evidence from KB and text are finally aggregated to predict answers. On the widely-used KBQA benchmark WebQSP, our model achieves consistent improvements across settings with different extents of KB incompleteness.
Neural semantic parsers utilize the encoder-decoder framework to learn an end-to-end model for semantic parsing that transduces a natural language sentence to the formal semantic representation. To keep the model aware of the underlying grammar in target sequences, many constrained decoders were devised in a multi-stage paradigm, which decode to the sketches or abstract syntax trees first, and then decode to target semantic tokens. We instead to propose an adaptive decoding method to avoid such intermediate representations. The decoder is guided by model uncertainty and automatically uses deeper computations when necessary. Thus it can predict tokens adaptively. Our model outperforms the state-of-the-art neural models and does not need any expertise like predefined grammar or sketches in the meantime.
The non-indexed parts of the Internet (the Darknet) have become a haven for both legal and illegal anonymous activity. Given the magnitude of these networks, scalably monitoring their activity necessarily relies on automated tools, and notably on NLP tools. However, little is known about what characteristics texts communicated through the Darknet have, and how well do off-the-shelf NLP tools do on this domain. This paper tackles this gap and performs an in-depth investigation of the characteristics of legal and illegal text in the Darknet, comparing it to a clear net website with similar content as a control condition. Taking drugs-related websites as a test case, we find that texts for selling legal and illegal drugs have several linguistic characteristics that distinguish them from one another, as well as from the control condition, among them the distribution of POS tags, and the coverage of their named entities in Wikipedia.
Cognitive task analysis (CTA) is a type of analysis in applied psychology aimed at eliciting and representing the knowledge and thought processes of domain experts. In CTA, often heavy human labor is involved to parse the interview transcript into structured knowledge (e.g., flowchart for different actions). To reduce human efforts and scale the process, automated CTA transcript parsing is desirable. However, this task has unique challenges as (1) it requires the understanding of long-range context information in conversational text; and (2) the amount of labeled data is limited and indirect{---}i.e., context-aware, noisy, and low-resource. In this paper, we propose a weakly-supervised information extraction framework for automated CTA transcript parsing. We partition the parsing process into a sequence labeling task and a text span-pair relation extraction task, with distant supervision from human-curated protocol files. To model long-range context information for extracting sentence relations, neighbor sentences are involved as a part of input. Different types of models for capturing context dependency are then applied. We manually annotate real-world CTA transcripts to facilitate the evaluation of the parsing tasks.
As Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) become increasingly popular, it is promising to automatically provide extracurricular knowledge for MOOC users. Suffering from semantic drifts and lack of knowledge guidance, existing methods can not effectively expand course concepts in complex MOOC environments. In this paper, we first build a novel boundary during searching for new concepts via external knowledge base and then utilize heterogeneous features to verify the high-quality results. In addition, to involve human efforts in our model, we design an interactive optimization mechanism based on a game. Our experiments on the four datasets from Coursera and XuetangX show that the proposed method achieves significant improvements(+0.19 by MAP) over existing methods.
We show that the imperceptibility of several existing linguistic steganographic systems (Fang et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2018) relies on implicit assumptions on statistical behaviors of fluent text. We formally analyze them and empirically evaluate these assumptions. Furthermore, based on these observations, we propose an encoding algorithm called patient-Huffman with improved near-imperceptible guarantees.
Inter-sentence relation extraction deals with a number of complex semantic relationships in documents, which require local, non-local, syntactic and semantic dependencies. Existing methods do not fully exploit such dependencies. We present a novel inter-sentence relation extraction model that builds a labelled edge graph convolutional neural network model on a document-level graph. The graph is constructed using various inter- and intra-sentence dependencies to capture local and non-local dependency information. In order to predict the relation of an entity pair, we utilise multi-instance learning with bi-affine pairwise scoring. Experimental results show that our model achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art neural models on two biochemistry datasets. Our analysis shows that all the types in the graph are effective for inter-sentence relation extraction.
Legal judgment prediction is the task of automatically predicting the outcome of a court case, given a text describing the case{'}s facts. Previous work on using neural models for this task has focused on Chinese; only feature-based models (e.g., using bags of words and topics) have been considered in English. We release a new English legal judgment prediction dataset, containing cases from the European Court of Human Rights. We evaluate a broad variety of neural models on the new dataset, establishing strong baselines that surpass previous feature-based models in three tasks: (1) binary violation classification; (2) multi-label classification; (3) case importance prediction. We also explore if models are biased towards demographic information via data anonymization. As a side-product, we propose a hierarchical version of BERT, which bypasses BERT{'}s length limitation.
Neural machine translation (NMT) often suffers from the vulnerability to noisy perturbations in the input. We propose an approach to improving the robustness of NMT models, which consists of two parts: (1) attack the translation model with adversarial source examples; (2) defend the translation model with adversarial target inputs to improve its robustness against the adversarial source inputs. For the generation of adversarial inputs, we propose a gradient-based method to craft adversarial examples informed by the translation loss over the clean inputs. Experimental results on Chinese-English and English-German translation tasks demonstrate that our approach achieves significant improvements (2.8 and 1.6 BLEU points) over Transformer on standard clean benchmarks as well as exhibiting higher robustness on noisy data.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) generates target words sequentially in the way of predicting the next word conditioned on the context words. At training time, it predicts with the ground truth words as context while at inference it has to generate the entire sequence from scratch. This discrepancy of the fed context leads to error accumulation among the way. Furthermore, word-level training requires strict matching between the generated sequence and the ground truth sequence which leads to overcorrection over different but reasonable translations. In this paper, we address these issues by sampling context words not only from the ground truth sequence but also from the predicted sequence by the model during training, where the predicted sequence is selected with a sentence-level optimum. Experiment results on Chinese-{\textgreater}English and WMT{'}14 English-{\textgreater}German translation tasks demonstrate that our approach can achieve significant improvements on multiple datasets.
While most neural machine translation (NMT)systems are still trained using maximum likelihood estimation, recent work has demonstrated that optimizing systems to directly improve evaluation metrics such as BLEU can significantly improve final translation accuracy. However, training with BLEU has some limitations: it doesn{'}t assign partial credit, it has a limited range of output values, and it can penalize semantically correct hypotheses if they differ lexically from the reference. In this paper, we introduce an alternative reward function for optimizing NMT systems that is based on recent work in semantic similarity. We evaluate on four disparate languages trans-lated to English, and find that training with our proposed metric results in better translations as evaluated by BLEU, semantic similarity, and human evaluation, and also that the optimization procedure converges faster. Analysis suggests that this is because the proposed metric is more conducive to optimization, assigning partial credit and providing more diversity in scores than BLEU
The process of extracting knowledge from natural language text poses a complex problem that requires both a combination of machine learning techniques and proper feature selection. Recent advances in Automatic Machine Learning (AutoML) provide effective tools to explore large sets of algorithms, hyper-parameters and features to find out the most suitable combination of them. This paper proposes a novel AutoML strategy based on probabilistic grammatical evolution, which is evaluated on the health domain by facing the knowledge discovery challenge in Spanish text documents. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results and provides interesting insights into the best combination of parameters and algorithms to use when dealing with this challenge. Source code is provided for the research community.
Event detection systems rely on discrimination knowledge to distinguish ambiguous trigger words and generalization knowledge to detect unseen/sparse trigger words. Current neural event detection approaches focus on trigger-centric representations, which work well on distilling discrimination knowledge, but poorly on learning generalization knowledge. To address this problem, this paper proposes a Delta-learning approach to distill discrimination and generalization knowledge by effectively decoupling, incrementally learning and adaptively fusing event representation. Experiments show that our method significantly outperforms previous approaches on unseen/sparse trigger words, and achieves state-of-the-art performance on both ACE2005 and KBP2017 datasets.
Chinese relation extraction is conducted using neural networks with either character-based or word-based inputs, and most existing methods typically suffer from segmentation errors and ambiguity of polysemy. To address the issues, we propose a multi-grained lattice framework (MG lattice) for Chinese relation extraction to take advantage of multi-grained language information and external linguistic knowledge. In this framework, (1) we incorporate word-level information into character sequence inputs so that segmentation errors can be avoided. (2) We also model multiple senses of polysemous words with the help of external linguistic knowledge, so as to alleviate polysemy ambiguity. Experiments on three real-world datasets in distinct domains show consistent and significant superiority and robustness of our model, as compared with other baselines. We will release the source code of this paper in the future.
State-of-the-art models for knowledge graph completion aim at learning a fixed embedding representation of entities in a multi-relational graph which can generalize to infer unseen entity relationships at test time. This can be sub-optimal as it requires memorizing and generalizing to all possible entity relationships using these fixed representations. We thus propose a novel attention-based method to learn query-dependent representation of entities which adaptively combines the relevant graph neighborhood of an entity leading to more accurate KG completion. The proposed method is evaluated on two benchmark datasets for knowledge graph completion, and experimental results show that the proposed model performs competitively or better than existing state-of-the-art, including recent methods for explicit multi-hop reasoning. Qualitative probing offers insight into how the model can reason about facts involving multiple hops in the knowledge graph, through the use of neighborhood attention.
Event factuality prediction (EFP) is the task of assessing the degree to which an event mentioned in a sentence has happened. For this task, both syntactic and semantic information are crucial to identify the important context words. The previous work for EFP has only combined these information in a simple way that cannot fully exploit their coordination. In this work, we introduce a novel graph-based neural network for EFP that can integrate the semantic and syntactic information more effectively. Our experiments demonstrate the advantage of the proposed model for EFP.
Data-driven models have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance in inferring the temporal ordering of events in text. However, these models often overlook explicit temporal signals, such as dates and time windows. Rule-based methods can be used to identify the temporal links between these time expressions (timexes), but they fail to capture timexes{'} interactions with events and are hard to integrate with the distributed representations of neural net models. In this paper, we introduce a framework to infuse temporal awareness into such models by learning a pre-trained model to embed timexes. We generate synthetic data consisting of pairs of timexes, then train a character LSTM to learn embeddings and classify the timexes{'} temporal relation. We evaluate the utility of these embeddings in the context of a strong neural model for event temporal ordering, and show a small increase in performance on the MATRES dataset and more substantial gains on an automatically collected dataset with more frequent event-timex interactions.
We consider a novel question answering (QA) task where the machine needs to read from large streaming data (long documents or videos) without knowing when the questions will be given, which is difficult to solve with existing QA methods due to their lack of scalability. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel end-to-end deep network model for reading comprehension, which we refer to as Episodic Memory Reader (EMR) that sequentially reads the input contexts into an external memory, while replacing memories that are less important for answering unseen questions. Specifically, we train an RL agent to replace a memory entry when the memory is full, in order to maximize its QA accuracy at a future timepoint, while encoding the external memory using either the GRU or the Transformer architecture to learn representations that considers relative importance between the memory entries. We validate our model on a synthetic dataset (bAbI) as well as real-world large-scale textual QA (TriviaQA) and video QA (TVQA) datasets, on which it achieves significant improvements over rule based memory scheduling policies or an RL based baseline that independently learns the query-specific importance of each memory.
Natural Language Sentence Matching (NLSM) has gained substantial attention from both academics and the industry, and rich public datasets contribute a lot to this process. However, biased datasets can also hurt the generalization performance of trained models and give untrustworthy evaluation results. For many NLSM datasets, the providers select some pairs of sentences into the datasets, and this sampling procedure can easily bring unintended pattern, i.e., selection bias. One example is the QuoraQP dataset, where some content-independent naive features are unreasonably predictive. Such features are the reflection of the selection bias and termed as the {``}leakage features.{''} In this paper, we investigate the problem of selection bias on six NLSM datasets and find that four out of them are significantly biased. We further propose a training and evaluation framework to alleviate the bias. Experimental results on QuoraQP suggest that the proposed framework can improve the generalization ability of trained models, and give more trustworthy evaluation results for real-world adoptions.
Existing open-domain question answering (QA) models are not suitable for real-time usage because they need to process several long documents on-demand for every input query, which is computationally prohibitive. In this paper, we introduce query-agnostic indexable representations of document phrases that can drastically speed up open-domain QA. In particular, our dense-sparse phrase encoding effectively captures syntactic, semantic, and lexical information of the phrases and eliminates the pipeline filtering of context documents. Leveraging strategies for optimizing training and inference time, our model can be trained and deployed even in a single 4-GPU server. Moreover, by representing phrases as pointers to their start and end tokens, our model indexes phrases in the entire English Wikipedia (up to 60 billion phrases) using under 2TB. Our experiments on SQuAD-Open show that our model is on par with or more accurate than previous models with 6000x reduced computational cost, which translates into at least 68x faster end-to-end inference benchmark on CPUs. Code and demo are available at nlp.cs.washington.edu/denspi
Sequential recurrent neural networks have achieved superior performance on language modeling, but overlook the structure information in natural language. Recent works on structure-aware models have shown promising results on language modeling. However, how to incorporate structure knowledge on corpus without syntactic annotations remains an open problem. In this work, we propose neural variational language model (NVLM), which enables the sharing of grammar knowledge among different corpora. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on two popular benchmark datasets. With the help of shared grammar, our language model converges significantly faster to a lower perplexity on new training corpus.
We consider a zero-shot semantic parsing task: parsing instructions into compositional logical forms, in domains that were not seen during training. We present a new dataset with 1,390 examples from 7 application domains (e.g. a calendar or a file manager), each example consisting of a triplet: (a) the application{'}s initial state, (b) an instruction, to be carried out in the context of that state, and (c) the state of the application after carrying out the instruction. We introduce a new training algorithm that aims to train a semantic parser on examples from a set of source domains, so that it can effectively parse instructions from an unknown target domain. We integrate our algorithm into the floating parser of Pasupat and Liang (2015), and further augment the parser with features and a logical form candidate filtering logic, to support zero-shot adaptation. Our experiments with various zero-shot adaptation setups demonstrate substantial performance gains over a non-adapted parser.
Natural language understanding has recently seen a surge of progress with the use of sentence encoders like ELMo (Peters et al., 2018a) and BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) which are pretrained on variants of language modeling. We conduct the first large-scale systematic study of candidate pretraining tasks, comparing 19 different tasks both as alternatives and complements to language modeling. Our primary results support the use language modeling, especially when combined with pretraining on additional labeled-data tasks. However, our results are mixed across pretraining tasks and show some concerning trends: In ELMo{'}s pretrain-then-freeze paradigm, random baselines are worryingly strong and results vary strikingly across target tasks. In addition, fine-tuning BERT on an intermediate task often negatively impacts downstream transfer. In a more positive trend, we see modest gains from multitask training, suggesting the development of more sophisticated multitask and transfer learning techniques as an avenue for further research.
In this work, we focus on complex question semantic parsing and propose a novel Hierarchical Semantic Parsing (HSP) method, which utilizes the decompositionality of complex questions for semantic parsing. Our model is designed within a three-stage parsing architecture based on the idea of decomposition-integration. In the first stage, we propose a question decomposer which decomposes a complex question into a sequence of sub-questions. In the second stage, we design an information extractor to derive the type and predicate information of these questions. In the last stage, we integrate the generated information from previous stages and generate a logical form for the complex question. We conduct experiments on COMPLEXWEBQUESTIONS which is a large scale complex question semantic parsing dataset, results show that our model achieves significant improvement compared to state-of-the-art methods.
In this paper, we present a Multi-Task Deep Neural Network (MT-DNN) for learning representations across multiple natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. MT-DNN not only leverages large amounts of cross-task data, but also benefits from a regularization effect that leads to more general representations to help adapt to new tasks and domains. MT-DNN extends the model proposed in Liu et al. (2015) by incorporating a pre-trained bidirectional transformer language model, known as BERT (Devlin et al., 2018). MT-DNN obtains new state-of-the-art results on ten NLU tasks, including SNLI, SciTail, and eight out of nine GLUE tasks, pushing the GLUE benchmark to 82.7{\%} (2.2{\%} absolute improvement) as of February 25, 2019 on the latest GLUE test set. We also demonstrate using the SNLI and SciTail datasets that the representations learned by MT-DNN allow domain adaptation with substantially fewer in-domain labels than the pre-trained BERT representations. Our code and pre-trained models will be made publicly available.
Learning effective representations of sentences is one of the core missions of natural language understanding. Existing models either train on a vast amount of text, or require costly, manually curated sentence relation datasets. We show that with dependency parsing and rule-based rubrics, we can curate a high quality sentence relation task by leveraging explicit discourse relations. We show that our curated dataset provides an excellent signal for learning vector representations of sentence meaning, representing relations that can only be determined when the meanings of two sentences are combined. We demonstrate that the automatically curated corpus allows a bidirectional LSTM sentence encoder to yield high quality sentence embeddings and can serve as a supervised fine-tuning dataset for larger models such as BERT. Our fixed sentence embeddings achieve high performance on a variety of transfer tasks, including SentEval, and we achieve state-of-the-art results on Penn Discourse Treebank{'}s implicit relation prediction task.
We present SParC, a dataset for cross-domainSemanticParsing inContext that consists of 4,298 coherent question sequences (12k+ individual questions annotated with SQL queries). It is obtained from controlled user interactions with 200 complex databases over 138 domains. We provide an in-depth analysis of SParC and show that it introduces new challenges compared to existing datasets. SParC demonstrates complex contextual dependencies, (2) has greater semantic diversity, and (3) requires generalization to unseen domains due to its cross-domain nature and the unseen databases at test time. We experiment with two state-of-the-art text-to-SQL models adapted to the context-dependent, cross-domain setup. The best model obtains an exact match accuracy of 20.2{\%} over all questions and less than10{\%} over all interaction sequences, indicating that the cross-domain setting and the con-textual phenomena of the dataset present significant challenges for future research. The dataset, baselines, and leaderboard are released at https://yale-lily.github.io/sparc.
We present a neural approach called IRNet for complex and cross-domain Text-to-SQL. IRNet aims to address two challenges: 1) the mismatch between intents expressed in natural language (NL) and the implementation details in SQL; 2) the challenge in predicting columns caused by the large number of out-of-domain words. Instead of end-to-end synthesizing a SQL query, IRNet decomposes the synthesis process into three phases. In the first phase, IRNet performs a schema linking over a question and a database schema. Then, IRNet adopts a grammar-based neural model to synthesize a SemQL query which is an intermediate representation that we design to bridge NL and SQL. Finally, IRNet deterministically infers a SQL query from the synthesized SemQL query with domain knowledge. On the challenging Text-to-SQL benchmark Spider, IRNet achieves 46.7{\%} accuracy, obtaining 19.5{\%} absolute improvement over previous state-of-the-art approaches. At the time of writing, IRNet achieves the first position on the Spider leaderboard.
Distributed representation of words, or word embeddings, have motivated methods for calculating semantic representations of word sequences such as phrases, sentences and paragraphs. Most of the existing methods to do so either use algorithms to learn such representations, or improve on calculating weighted averages of the word vectors. In this work, we experiment with spectral methods of signal representation and summarization as mechanisms for constructing such word-sequence embeddings in an unsupervised fashion. In particular, we explore an algorithm rooted in fluid-dynamics, known as higher-order Dynamic Mode Decomposition, which is designed to capture the eigenfrequencies, and hence the fundamental transition dynamics, of periodic and quasi-periodic systems. It is empirically observed that this approach, which we call EigenSent, can summarize transitions in a sequence of words and generate an embedding that can represent well the sequence itself. To the best of the authors{'} knowledge, this is the first application of a spectral decomposition and signal summarization technique on text, to create sentence embeddings. We test the efficacy of this algorithm in creating sentence embeddings on three public datasets, where it performs appreciably well. Moreover it is also shown that, due to the positive combination of their complementary properties, concatenating the embeddings generated by EigenSent with simple word vector averaging achieves state-of-the-art results.
Evaluating AMR parsing accuracy involves comparing pairs of AMR graphs. The major evaluation metric, SMATCH (Cai and Knight, 2013), searches for one-to-one mappings between the nodes of two AMRs with a greedy hill-climbing algorithm, which leads to search errors. We propose SEMBLEU, a robust metric that extends BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002) to AMRs. It does not suffer from search errors and considers non-local correspondences in addition to local ones. SEMBLEU is fully content-driven and punishes situations where a system{'}s output does not preserve most information from the input. Preliminary experiments on both sentence and corpus levels show that SEMBLEU has slightly higher consistency with human judgments than SMATCH. Our code is available at http://github.com/ freesunshine0316/sembleu.
Semantic parsing considers the task of transducing natural language (NL) utterances into machine executable meaning representations (MRs). While neural network-based semantic parsers have achieved impressive improvements over previous methods, results are still far from perfect, and cursory manual inspection can easily identify obvious problems such as lack of adequacy or coherence of the generated MRs. This paper presents a simple approach to quickly iterate and improve the performance of an existing neural semantic parser by reranking an n-best list of predicted MRs, using features that are designed to fix observed problems with baseline models. We implement our reranker in a competitive neural semantic parser and test on four semantic parsing (GEO, ATIS) and Python code generation (Django, CoNaLa) tasks, improving the strong baseline parser by up to 5.7{\%} absolute in BLEU (CoNaLa) and 2.9{\%} in accuracy (Django), outperforming the best published neural parser results on all four datasets.
Research on parsing language to SQL has largely ignored the structure of the database (DB) schema, either because the DB was very simple, or because it was observed at both training and test time. In spider, a recently-released text-to-SQL dataset, new and complex DBs are given at test time, and so the structure of the DB schema can inform the predicted SQL query. In this paper, we present an encoder-decoder semantic parser, where the structure of the DB schema is encoded with a graph neural network, and this representation is later used at both encoding and decoding time. Evaluation shows that encoding the schema structure improves our parser accuracy from 33.8{\%} to 39.4{\%}, dramatically above the current state of the art, which is at 19.7{\%}.
The GLUE benchmark (Wang et al., 2019b) is a suite of language understanding tasks which has seen dramatic progress in the past year, with average performance moving from 70.0 at launch to 83.9, state of the art at the time of writing (May 24, 2019). Here, we measure human performance on the benchmark, in order to learn whether significant headroom remains for further progress. We provide a conservative estimate of human performance on the benchmark through crowdsourcing: Our annotators are non-experts who must learn each task from a brief set of instructions and 20 examples. In spite of limited training, these annotators robustly outperform the state of the art on six of the nine GLUE tasks and achieve an average score of 87.1. Given the fast pace of progress however, the headroom we observe is quite limited. To reproduce the data-poor setting that our annotators must learn in, we also train the BERT model (Devlin et al., 2019) in limited-data regimes, and conclude that low-resource sentence classification remains a challenge for modern neural network approaches to text understanding.
Most semantic parsers that map sentences to graph-based meaning representations are hand-designed for specific graphbanks. We present a compositional neural semantic parser which achieves, for the first time, competitive accuracies across a diverse range of graphbanks. Incorporating BERT embeddings and multi-task learning improves the accuracy further, setting new states of the art on DM, PAS, PSD, AMR 2015 and EDS.
Our work involves enriching the Stack-LSTM transition-based AMR parser (Ballesteros and Al-Onaizan, 2017) by augmenting training with Policy Learning and rewarding the Smatch score of sampled graphs. In addition, we also combined several AMR-to-text alignments with an attention mechanism and we supplemented the parser with pre-processed concept identification, named entities and contextualized embeddings. We achieve a highly competitive performance that is comparable to the best published results. We show an in-depth study ablating each of the new components of the parser.
Pre-trained text encoders have rapidly advanced the state of the art on many NLP tasks. We focus on one such model, BERT, and aim to quantify where linguistic information is captured within the network. We find that the model represents the steps of the traditional NLP pipeline in an interpretable and localizable way, and that the regions responsible for each step appear in the expected sequence: POS tagging, parsing, NER, semantic roles, then coreference. Qualitative analysis reveals that the model can and often does adjust this pipeline dynamically, revising lower-level decisions on the basis of disambiguating information from higher-level representations.
We present a model and methodology for learning paraphrastic sentence embeddings directly from bitext, removing the time-consuming intermediate step of creating para-phrase corpora. Further, we show that the resulting model can be applied to cross lingual tasks where it both outperforms and is orders of magnitude faster than more complex state-of-the-art baselines.
Semantic dependency parsing aims to identify semantic relationships between words in a sentence that form a graph. In this paper, we propose a second-order semantic dependency parser, which takes into consideration not only individual dependency edges but also interactions between pairs of edges. We show that second-order parsing can be approximated using mean field (MF) variational inference or loopy belief propagation (LBP). We can unfold both algorithms as recurrent layers of a neural network and therefore can train the parser in an end-to-end manner. Our experiments show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance.
Sarcasm is often expressed through several verbal and non-verbal cues, e.g., a change of tone, overemphasis in a word, a drawn-out syllable, or a straight looking face. Most of the recent work in sarcasm detection has been carried out on textual data. In this paper, we argue that incorporating multimodal cues can improve the automatic classification of sarcasm. As a first step towards enabling the development of multimodal approaches for sarcasm detection, we propose a new sarcasm dataset, Multimodal Sarcasm Detection Dataset (MUStARD), compiled from popular TV shows. MUStARD consists of audiovisual utterances annotated with sarcasm labels. Each utterance is accompanied by its context of historical utterances in the dialogue, which provides additional information on the scenario where the utterance occurs. Our initial results show that the use of multimodal information can reduce the relative error rate of sarcasm detection by up to 12.9{\%} in F-score when compared to the use of individual modalities. The full dataset is publicly available for use at https://github.com/soujanyaporia/MUStARD.
Systems for automatic argument generation and debate require the ability to (1) determine the stance of any claims employed in the argument and (2) assess the specificity of each claim relative to the argument context. Existing work on understanding claim specificity and stance, however, has been limited to the study of argumentative structures that are relatively shallow, most often consisting of a single claim that directly supports or opposes the argument thesis. In this paper, we tackle these tasks in the context of complex arguments on a diverse set of topics. In particular, our dataset consists of manually curated argument trees for 741 controversial topics covering 95,312 unique claims; lines of argument are generally of depth 2 to 6. We find that as the distance between a pair of claims increases along the argument path, determining the relative specificity of a pair of claims becomes easier and determining their relative stance becomes harder.
Neural models have been investigated for sentiment classification over constituent trees. They learn phrase composition automatically by encoding tree structures but do not explicitly model sentiment composition, which requires to encode sentiment class labels. To this end, we investigate two formalisms with deep sentiment representations that capture sentiment subtype expressions by latent variables and Gaussian mixture vectors, respectively. Experiments on Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SST) show the effectiveness of sentiment grammar over vanilla neural encoders. Using ELMo embeddings, our method gives the best results on this benchmark.
Text classification approaches have usually required task-specific model architectures and huge labeled datasets. Recently, thanks to the rise of text-based transfer learning techniques, it is possible to pre-train a language model in an unsupervised manner and leverage them to perform effective on downstream tasks. In this work we focus on Japanese and show the potential use of transfer learning techniques in text classification. Specifically, we perform binary and multi-class sentiment classification on the Rakuten product review and Yahoo movie review datasets. We show that transfer learning-based approaches perform better than task-specific models trained on 3 times as much data. Furthermore, these approaches perform just as well for language modeling pre-trained on only 1/30 of the data. We release our pre-trained models and code as open source.
We are surprised to find that BERT{'}s peak performance of 77{\%} on the Argument Reasoning Comprehension Task reaches just three points below the average untrained human baseline. However, we show that this result is entirely accounted for by exploitation of spurious statistical cues in the dataset. We analyze the nature of these cues and demonstrate that a range of models all exploit them. This analysis informs the construction of an adversarial dataset on which all models achieve random accuracy. Our adversarial dataset provides a more robust assessment of argument comprehension and should be adopted as the standard in future work.
We identify agreement and disagreement between utterances that express stances towards a topic of discussion. Existing methods focus mainly on conversational settings, where dialogic features are used for (dis)agreement inference. We extend this scope and seek to detect stance (dis)agreement in a broader setting, where independent stance-bearing utterances, which prevail in many stance corpora and real-world scenarios, are compared. To cope with such non-dialogic utterances, we find that the reasons uttered to back up a specific stance can help predict stance (dis)agreements. We propose a reason comparing network (RCN) to leverage reason information for stance comparison. Empirical results on a well-known stance corpus show that our method can discover useful reason information, enabling it to outperform several baselines in stance (dis)agreement detection.
In sentiment detection, the natural language processing community has focused on determining holders, facets, and valences, but has paid little attention to the reasons for sentiment decisions. Our work considers human motives as the driver for human sentiments and addresses the problem of motive detection as the first step. Following a study in psychology, we define six basic motives that cover a wide range of topics appearing in review texts, annotate 1,600 texts in restaurant and laptop domains with the motives, and report the performance of baseline methods on this new dataset. We also show that cross-domain transfer learning boosts detection performance, which indicates that these universal motives exist across different domains.
Attention-based neural models were employed to detect the different aspects and sentiment polarities of the same target in targeted aspect-based sentiment analysis (TABSA). However, existing methods do not specifically pre-train reasonable embeddings for targets and aspects in TABSA. This may result in targets or aspects having the same vector representations in different contexts and losing the context-dependent information. To address this problem, we propose a novel method to refine the embeddings of targets and aspects. Such pivotal embedding refinement utilizes a sparse coefficient vector to adjust the embeddings of target and aspect from the context. Hence the embeddings of targets and aspects can be refined from the highly correlative words instead of using context-independent or randomly initialized vectors. Experiment results on two benchmark datasets show that our approach yields the state-of-the-art performance in TABSA task.
Political debates offer a rare opportunity for citizens to compare the candidates{'} positions on the most controversial topics of the campaign. Thus they represent a natural application scenario for Argument Mining. As existing research lacks solid empirical investigation of the typology of argument components in political debates, we fill this gap by proposing an Argument Mining approach to political debates. We address this task in an empirical manner by annotating 39 political debates from the last 50 years of US presidential campaigns, creating a new corpus of 29k argument components, labeled as premises and claims. We then propose two tasks: (1) identifying the argumentative components in such debates, and (2) classifying them as premises and claims. We show that feature-rich SVM learners and Neural Network architectures outperform standard baselines in Argument Mining over such complex data. We release the new corpus USElecDeb60To16 and the accompanying software under free licenses to the research community.
For several natural language processing (NLP) tasks, span representation design is attracting considerable attention as a promising new technique; a common basis for an effective design has been established. With such basis, exploring task-dependent extensions for argumentation structure parsing (ASP) becomes an interesting research direction. This study investigates (i) span representation originally developed for other NLP tasks and (ii) a simple task-dependent extension for ASP. Our extensive experiments and analysis show that these representations yield high performance for ASP and provide some challenging types of instances to be parsed.
In this paper, we present a fast and strong neural approach for general purpose text matching applications. We explore what is sufficient to build a fast and well-performed text matching model and propose to keep three key features available for inter-sequence alignment: original point-wise features, previous aligned features, and contextual features while simplifying all the remaining components. We conduct experiments on four well-studied benchmark datasets across tasks of natural language inference, paraphrase identification and answer selection. The performance of our model is on par with the state-of-the-art on all datasets with much fewer parameters and the inference speed is at least 6 times faster compared with similarly performed ones.
The recent proliferation of knowledge graphs (KGs) coupled with incomplete or partial information, in the form of missing relations (links) between entities, has fueled a lot of research on knowledge base completion (also known as relation prediction). Several recent works suggest that convolutional neural network (CNN) based models generate richer and more expressive feature embeddings and hence also perform well on relation prediction. However, we observe that these KG embeddings treat triples independently and thus fail to cover the complex and hidden information that is inherently implicit in the local neighborhood surrounding a triple. To this effect, our paper proposes a novel attention-based feature embedding that captures both entity and relation features in any given entity{'}s neighborhood. Additionally, we also encapsulate relation clusters and multi-hop relations in our model. Our empirical study offers insights into the efficacy of our attention-based model and we show marked performance gains in comparison to state-of-the-art methods on all datasets.
We present a monolingual alignment system for long, sentence- or clause-level alignments, and demonstrate that systems designed for word- or short phrase-based alignment are ill-suited for these longer alignments. Our system is capable of aligning semantically similar spans of arbitrary length. We achieve significantly higher recall on aligning phrases of four or more words and outperform state-of-the- art aligners on the long alignments in the MSR RTE corpus.
Link prediction and entailment graph induction are often treated as different problems. In this paper, we show that these two problems are actually complementary. We train a link prediction model on a knowledge graph of assertions extracted from raw text. We propose an entailment score that exploits the new facts discovered by the link prediction model, and then form entailment graphs between relations. We further use the learned entailments to predict improved link prediction scores. Our results show that the two tasks can benefit from each other. The new entailment score outperforms prior state-of-the-art results on a standard entialment dataset and the new link prediction scores show improvements over the raw link prediction scores.
We present a latent variable model for predicting the relationship between a pair of text sequences. Unlike previous auto-encoding{--}based approaches that consider each sequence separately, our proposed framework utilizes both sequences within a single model by generating a sequence that has a given relationship with a source sequence. We further extend the cross-sentence generating framework to facilitate semi-supervised training. We also define novel semantic constraints that lead the decoder network to generate semantically plausible and diverse sequences. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model from quantitative and qualitative experiments, while achieving state-of-the-art results on semi-supervised natural language inference and paraphrase identification.
We present the first comprehensive study on automatic knowledge base construction for two prevalent commonsense knowledge graphs: ATOMIC (Sap et al., 2019) and ConceptNet (Speer et al., 2017). Contrary to many conventional KBs that store knowledge with canonical templates, commonsense KBs only store loosely structured open-text descriptions of knowledge. We posit that an important step toward automatic commonsense completion is the development of generative models of commonsense knowledge, and propose COMmonsEnse Transformers (COMET) that learn to generate rich and diverse commonsense descriptions in natural language. Despite the challenges of commonsense modeling, our investigation reveals promising results when implicit knowledge from deep pre-trained language models is transferred to generate explicit knowledge in commonsense knowledge graphs. Empirical results demonstrate that COMET is able to generate novel knowledge that humans rate as high quality, with up to 77.5{\%} (ATOMIC) and 91.7{\%} (ConceptNet) precision at top 1, which approaches human performance for these resources. Our findings suggest that using generative commonsense models for automatic commonsense KB completion could soon be a plausible alternative to extractive methods.
Recognizing the internal structure of events is a challenging language processing task of great importance for text understanding. We present a supervised model for automatically identifying when one event is a subevent of another. Building on prior work, we introduce several novel features, in particular discourse and narrative features, that significantly improve upon prior state-of-the-art performance. Error analysis further demonstrates the utility of these features. We evaluate our model on the only two annotated corpora with event hierarchies: HiEve and the Intelligence Community corpus. No prior system has been evaluated on both corpora. Our model outperforms previous systems on both corpora, achieving 0.74 BLANC F1 on the Intelligence Community corpus and 0.70 F1 on the HiEve corpus, respectively a 15 and 5 percentage point improvement over previous models.
Recent work by Zellers et al. (2018) introduced a new task of commonsense natural language inference: given an event description such as {``}A woman sits at a piano,{''} a machine must select the most likely followup: {``}She sets her fingers on the keys.{''} With the introduction of BERT, near human-level performance was reached. Does this mean that machines can perform human level commonsense inference? In this paper, we show that commonsense inference still proves difficult for even state-of-the-art models, by presenting HellaSwag, a new challenge dataset. Though its questions are trivial for humans ({\textgreater}95{\%} accuracy), state-of-the-art models struggle ({\textless}48{\%}). We achieve this via Adversarial Filtering (AF), a data collection paradigm wherein a series of discriminators iteratively select an adversarial set of machine-generated wrong answers. AF proves to be surprisingly robust. The key insight is to scale up the length and complexity of the dataset examples towards a critical {`}Goldilocks{'} zone wherein generated text is ridiculous to humans, yet often misclassified by state-of-the-art models. Our construction of HellaSwag, and its resulting difficulty, sheds light on the inner workings of deep pretrained models. More broadly, it suggests a new path forward for NLP research, in which benchmarks co-evolve with the evolving state-of-the-art in an adversarial way, so as to present ever-harder challenges.
Semantic parsing over multiple knowledge bases enables a parser to exploit structural similarities of programs across the multiple domains. However, the fundamental challenge lies in obtaining high-quality annotations of (utterance, program) pairs across various domains needed for training such models. To overcome this, we propose a novel framework to build a unified multi-domain enabled semantic parser trained only with weak supervision (denotations). Weakly supervised training is particularly arduous as the program search space grows exponentially in a multi-domain setting. To solve this, we incorporate a multi-policy distillation mechanism in which we first train domain-specific semantic parsers (teachers) using weak supervision in the absence of the ground truth programs, followed by training a single unified parser (student) from the domain specific policies obtained from these teachers. The resultant semantic parser is not only compact but also generalizes better, and generates more accurate programs. It further does not require the user to provide a domain label while querying. On the standard Overnight dataset (containing multiple domains), we demonstrate that the proposed model improves performance by 20{\%} in terms of denotation accuracy in comparison to baseline techniques.
Researchers illustrate improvements in contextual encoding strategies via resultant performance on a battery of shared Natural Language Understanding (NLU) tasks. Many of these tasks are of a categorical prediction variety: given a conditioning context (e.g., an NLI premise), provide a label based on an associated prompt (e.g., an NLI hypothesis). The categorical nature of these tasks has led to common use of a cross entropy log-loss objective during training. We suggest this loss is intuitively wrong when applied to plausibility tasks, where the prompt by design is neither categorically entailed nor contradictory given the context. Log-loss naturally drives models to assign scores near 0.0 or 1.0, in contrast to our proposed use of a margin-based loss. Following a discussion of our intuition, we describe a confirmation study based on an extreme, synthetically curated task derived from MultiNLI. We find that a margin-based loss leads to a more plausible model of plausibility. Finally, we illustrate improvements on the Choice Of Plausible Alternative (COPA) task through this change in loss.
Lexical entailment (LE; also known as hyponymy-hypernymy or is-a relation) is a core asymmetric lexical relation that supports tasks like taxonomy induction and text generation. In this work, we propose a simple and effective method for fine-tuning distributional word vectors for LE. Our Generalized Lexical ENtailment model (GLEN) is decoupled from the word embedding model and applicable to any distributional vector space. Yet {--} unlike existing retrofitting models {--} it captures a general specialization function allowing for LE-tuning of the entire distributional space and not only the vectors of words seen in lexical constraints. Coupled with a multilingual embedding space, GLEN seamlessly enables cross-lingual LE detection. We demonstrate the effectiveness of GLEN in graded LE and report large improvements (over 20{\%} in accuracy) over state-of-the-art in cross-lingual LE detection.
The recently introduced BERT model exhibits strong performance on several language understanding benchmarks. In this paper, we describe a simple re-implementation of BERT for commonsense reasoning. We show that the attentions produced by BERT can be directly utilized for tasks such as the Pronoun Disambiguation Problem and Winograd Schema Challenge. Our proposed attention-guided commonsense reasoning method is conceptually simple yet empirically powerful. Experimental analysis on multiple datasets demonstrates that our proposed system performs remarkably well on all cases while outperforming the previously reported state of the art by a margin. While results suggest that BERT seems to implicitly learn to establish complex relationships between entities, solving commonsense reasoning tasks might require more than unsupervised models learned from huge text corpora.
The Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) dataset WSC273 and its inference counterpart WNLI are popular benchmarks for natural language understanding and commonsense reasoning. In this paper, we show that the performance of three language models on WSC273 consistently and robustly improves when fine-tuned on a similar pronoun disambiguation problem dataset (denoted WSCR). We additionally generate a large unsupervised WSC-like dataset. By fine-tuning the BERT language model both on the introduced and on the WSCR dataset, we achieve overall accuracies of 72.5{\%} and 74.7{\%} on WSC273 and WNLI, improving the previous state-of-the-art solutions by 8.8{\%} and 9.6{\%}, respectively. Furthermore, our fine-tuned models are also consistently more accurate on the {``}complex{''} subsets of WSC273, introduced by Trichelair et al. (2018).
Automatic article commenting is helpful in encouraging user engagement on online news platforms. However, the news documents are usually too long for models under traditional encoder-decoder frameworks, which often results in general and irrelevant comments. In this paper, we propose to generate comments with a graph-to-sequence model that models the input news as a topic interaction graph. By organizing the article into graph structure, our model can better understand the internal structure of the article and the connection between topics, which makes it better able to generate coherent and informative comments. We collect and release a large scale news-comment corpus from a popular Chinese online news platform Tencent Kuaibao. Extensive experiment results show that our model can generate much more coherent and informative comments compared with several strong baseline models.
We study the problem of generating interconnected questions in question-answering style conversations. Compared with previous works which generate questions based on a single sentence (or paragraph), this setting is different in two major aspects: (1) Questions are highly conversational. Almost half of them refer back to conversation history using coreferences. (2) In a coherent conversation, questions have smooth transitions between turns. We propose an end-to-end neural model with coreference alignment and conversation flow modeling. The coreference alignment modeling explicitly aligns coreferent mentions in conversation history with corresponding pronominal references in generated questions, which makes generated questions interconnected to conversation history. The conversation flow modeling builds a coherent conversation by starting questioning on the first few sentences in a text passage and smoothly shifting the focus to later parts. Extensive experiments show that our system outperforms several baselines and can generate highly conversational questions. The code implementation is released at https://github.com/Evan-Gao/conversaional-QG.
Automatic question generation (QG) is a challenging problem in natural language understanding. QG systems are typically built assuming access to a large number of training instances where each instance is a question and its corresponding answer. For a new language, such training instances are hard to obtain making the QG problem even more challenging. Using this as our motivation, we study the reuse of an available large QG dataset in a secondary language (e.g. English) to learn a QG model for a primary language (e.g. Hindi) of interest. For the primary language, we assume access to a large amount of monolingual text but only a small QG dataset. We propose a cross-lingual QG model which uses the following training regime: (i) Unsupervised pretraining of language models in both primary and secondary languages and (ii) joint supervised training for QG in both languages. We demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed approach using two different primary languages, Hindi and Chinese. Our proposed framework clearly outperforms a number of baseline models, including a fully-supervised transformer-based model trained on the QG datasets in the primary language. We also create and release a new question answering dataset for Hindi consisting of 6555 sentences.
Unsupervised text style transfer aims to alter text styles while preserving the content, without aligned data for supervision. Existing seq2seq methods face three challenges: 1) the transfer is weakly interpretable, 2) generated outputs struggle in content preservation, and 3) the trade-off between content and style is intractable. To address these challenges, we propose a hierarchical reinforced sequence operation method, named Point-Then-Operate (PTO), which consists of a high-level agent that proposes operation positions and a low-level agent that alters the sentence. We provide comprehensive training objectives to control the fluency, style, and content of the outputs and a mask-based inference algorithm that allows for multi-step revision based on the single-step trained agents. Experimental results on two text style transfer datasets show that our method significantly outperforms recent methods and effectively addresses the aforementioned challenges.
Automatically constructed datasets for generating text from semi-structured data (tables), such as WikiBio, often contain reference texts that diverge from the information in the corresponding semi-structured data. We show that metrics which rely solely on the reference texts, such as BLEU and ROUGE, show poor correlation with human judgments when those references diverge. We propose a new metric, PARENT, which aligns n-grams from the reference and generated texts to the semi-structured data before computing their precision and recall. Through a large scale human evaluation study of table-to-text models for WikiBio, we show that PARENT correlates with human judgments better than existing text generation metrics. We also adapt and evaluate the information extraction based evaluation proposed by Wiseman et al (2017), and show that PARENT has comparable correlation to it, while being easier to use. We show that PARENT is also applicable when the reference texts are elicited from humans using the data from the WebNLG challenge.
Obtaining training data for Question Answering (QA) is time-consuming and resource-intensive, and existing QA datasets are only available for limited domains and languages. In this work, we explore to what extent high quality training data is actually required for Extractive QA, and investigate the possibility of unsupervised Extractive QA. We approach this problem by first learning to generate context, question and answer triples in an unsupervised manner, which we then use to synthesize Extractive QA training data automatically. To generate such triples, we first sample random context paragraphs from a large corpus of documents and then random noun phrases or Named Entity mentions from these paragraphs as answers. Next we convert answers in context to {``}fill-in-the-blank{''} cloze questions and finally translate them into natural questions. We propose and compare various unsupervised ways to perform cloze-to-natural question translation, including training an unsupervised NMT model using non-aligned corpora of natural questions and cloze questions as well as a rule-based approach. We find that modern QA models can learn to answer human questions surprisingly well using only synthetic training data. We demonstrate that, without using the SQuAD training data at all, our approach achieves 56.4 F1 on SQuAD v1 (64.5 F1 when the answer is a Named Entity mention), outperforming early supervised models.
A large number of reading comprehension (RC) datasets has been created recently, but little analysis has been done on whether they generalize to one another, and the extent to which existing datasets can be leveraged for improving performance on new ones. In this paper, we conduct such an investigation over ten RC datasets, training on one or more source RC datasets, and evaluating generalization, as well as transfer to a target RC dataset. We analyze the factors that contribute to generalization, and show that training on a source RC dataset and transferring to a target dataset substantially improves performance, even in the presence of powerful contextual representations from BERT (Devlin et al., 2019). We also find that training on multiple source RC datasets leads to robust generalization and transfer, and can reduce the cost of example collection for a new RC dataset. Following our analysis, we propose MultiQA, a BERT-based model, trained on multiple RC datasets, which leads to state-of-the-art performance on five RC datasets. We share our infrastructure for the benefit of the research community.
This paper tackles the problem of reading comprehension over long narratives where documents easily span over thousands of tokens. We propose a curriculum learning (CL) based Pointer-Generator framework for reading/sampling over large documents, enabling diverse training of the neural model based on the notion of alternating contextual difficulty. This can be interpreted as a form of domain randomization and/or generative pretraining during training. To this end, the usage of the Pointer-Generator softens the requirement of having the answer within the context, enabling us to construct diverse training samples for learning. Additionally, we propose a new Introspective Alignment Layer (IAL), which reasons over decomposed alignments using block-based self-attention. We evaluate our proposed method on the NarrativeQA reading comprehension benchmark, achieving state-of-the-art performance, improving existing baselines by 51{\%} relative improvement on BLEU-4 and 17{\%} relative improvement on Rouge-L. Extensive ablations confirm the effectiveness of our proposed IAL and CL components.
Deep learning models perform poorly on tasks that require commonsense reasoning, which often necessitates some form of world-knowledge or reasoning over information not immediately present in the input. We collect human explanations for commonsense reasoning in the form of natural language sequences and highlighted annotations in a new dataset called Common Sense Explanations (CoS-E). We use CoS-E to train language models to automatically generate explanations that can be used during training and inference in a novel Commonsense Auto-Generated Explanation (CAGE) framework. CAGE improves the state-of-the-art by 10{\%} on the challenging CommonsenseQA task. We further study commonsense reasoning in DNNs using both human and auto-generated explanations including transfer to out-of-domain tasks. Empirical results indicate that we can effectively leverage language models for commonsense reasoning.
Interpretability of machine learning (ML) models becomes more relevant with their increasing adoption. In this work, we address the interpretability of ML based question answering (QA) models on a combination of knowledge bases (KB) and text documents. We adapt post hoc explanation methods such as LIME and input perturbation (IP) and compare them with the self-explanatory attention mechanism of the model. For this purpose, we propose an automatic evaluation paradigm for explanation methods in the context of QA. We also conduct a study with human annotators to evaluate whether explanations help them identify better QA models. Our results suggest that IP provides better explanations than LIME or attention, according to both automatic and human evaluation. We obtain the same ranking of methods in both experiments, which supports the validity of our automatic evaluation paradigm.
Cross-lingual word embeddings encode the meaning of words from different languages into a shared low-dimensional space. An important requirement for many downstream tasks is that word similarity should be independent of language{---}i.e., word vectors within one language should not be more similar to each other than to words in another language. We measure this characteristic using modularity, a network measurement that measures the strength of clusters in a graph. Modularity has a moderate to strong correlation with three downstream tasks, even though modularity is based only on the structure of embeddings and does not require any external resources. We show through experiments that modularity can serve as an intrinsic validation metric to improve unsupervised cross-lingual word embeddings, particularly on distant language pairs in low-resource settings.
Grounded in cognitive linguistics, graded lexical entailment (GR-LE) is concerned with fine-grained assertions regarding the directional hierarchical relationships between concepts on a continuous scale. In this paper, we present the first work on cross-lingual generalisation of GR-LE relation. Starting from HyperLex, the only available GR-LE dataset in English, we construct new monolingual GR-LE datasets for three other languages, and combine those to create a set of six cross-lingual GR-LE datasets termed CL-HYPERLEX. We next present a novel method dubbed CLEAR (Cross-Lingual Lexical Entailment Attract-Repel) for effectively capturing graded (and binary) LE, both monolingually in different languages as well as across languages (i.e., on CL-HYPERLEX). Coupled with a bilingual dictionary, CLEAR leverages taxonomic LE knowledge in a resource-rich language (e.g., English) and propagates it to other languages. Supported by cross-lingual LE transfer, CLEAR sets competitive baseline performance on three new monolingual GR-LE datasets and six cross-lingual GR-LE datasets. In addition, we show that CLEAR outperforms current state-of-the-art on binary cross-lingual LE detection by a wide margin for diverse language pairs.
How language-agnostic are current state-of-the-art NLP tools? Are there some types of language that are easier to model with current methods? In prior work (Cotterell et al., 2018) we attempted to address this question for language modeling, and observed that recurrent neural network language models do not perform equally well over all the high-resource European languages found in the Europarl corpus. We speculated that inflectional morphology may be the primary culprit for the discrepancy. In this paper, we extend these earlier experiments to cover 69 languages from 13 language families using a multilingual Bible corpus. Methodologically, we introduce a new paired-sample multiplicative mixed-effects model to obtain language difficulty coefficients from at-least-pairwise parallel corpora. In other words, the model is aware of inter-sentence variation and can handle missing data. Exploiting this model, we show that {``}translationese{''} is not any easier to model than natively written language in a fair comparison. Trying to answer the question of what features difficult languages have in common, we try and fail to reproduce our earlier (Cotterell et al., 2018) observation about morphological complexity and instead reveal far simpler statistics of the data that seem to drive complexity in a much larger sample.
Recent research in cross-lingual word embeddings has almost exclusively focused on offline methods, which independently train word embeddings in different languages and map them to a shared space through linear transformations. While several authors have questioned the underlying isomorphism assumption, which states that word embeddings in different languages have approximately the same structure, it is not clear whether this is an inherent limitation of mapping approaches or a more general issue when learning cross-lingual embeddings. So as to answer this question, we experiment with parallel corpora, which allows us to compare offline mapping to an extension of skip-gram that jointly learns both embedding spaces. We observe that, under these ideal conditions, joint learning yields to more isomorphic embeddings, is less sensitive to hubness, and obtains stronger results in bilingual lexicon induction. We thus conclude that current mapping methods do have strong limitations, calling for further research to jointly learn cross-lingual embeddings with a weaker cross-lingual signal.
In this paper, we show that Multilingual BERT (M-BERT), released by Devlin et al. (2018) as a single language model pre-trained from monolingual corpora in 104 languages, is surprisingly good at zero-shot cross-lingual model transfer, in which task-specific annotations in one language are used to fine-tune the model for evaluation in another language. To understand why, we present a large number of probing experiments, showing that transfer is possible even to languages in different scripts, that transfer works best between typologically similar languages, that monolingual corpora can train models for code-switching, and that the model can find translation pairs. From these results, we can conclude that M-BERT does create multilingual representations, but that these representations exhibit systematic deficiencies affecting certain language pairs.
A recent research line has obtained strong results on bilingual lexicon induction by aligning independently trained word embeddings in two languages and using the resulting cross-lingual embeddings to induce word translation pairs through nearest neighbor or related retrieval methods. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach to this problem that builds on the recent work on unsupervised machine translation. This way, instead of directly inducing a bilingual lexicon from cross-lingual embeddings, we use them to build a phrase-table, combine it with a language model, and use the resulting machine translation system to generate a synthetic parallel corpus, from which we extract the bilingual lexicon using statistical word alignment techniques. As such, our method can work with any word embedding and cross-lingual mapping technique, and it does not require any additional resource besides the monolingual corpus used to train the embeddings. When evaluated on the exact same cross-lingual embeddings, our proposed method obtains an average improvement of 6 accuracy points over nearest neighbor and 4 points over CSLS retrieval, establishing a new state-of-the-art in the standard MUSE dataset.
Complaining is a basic speech act regularly used in human and computer mediated communication to express a negative mismatch between reality and expectations in a particular situation. Automatically identifying complaints in social media is of utmost importance for organizations or brands to improve the customer experience or in developing dialogue systems for handling and responding to complaints. In this paper, we introduce the first systematic analysis of complaints in computational linguistics. We collect a new annotated data set of written complaints expressed on Twitter. We present an extensive linguistic analysis of complaining as a speech act in social media and train strong feature-based and neural models of complaints across nine domains achieving a predictive performance of up to 79 F1 using distant supervision.
With social media becoming increasingly popular on which lots of news and real-time events are reported, developing automated question answering systems is critical to the effective-ness of many applications that rely on real-time knowledge. While previous datasets have concentrated on question answering (QA) for formal text like news and Wikipedia, we present the first large-scale dataset for QA over social media data. To ensure that the tweets we collected are useful, we only gather tweets used by journalists to write news articles. We then ask human annotators to write questions and answers upon these tweets. Unlike otherQA datasets like SQuAD in which the answers are extractive, we allow the answers to be abstractive. We show that two recently proposed neural models that perform well on formal texts are limited in their performance when applied to our dataset. In addition, even the fine-tuned BERT model is still lagging behind human performance with a large margin. Our results thus point to the need of improved QA systems targeting social media text.
Teaching machines to ask questions is an important yet challenging task. Most prior work focused on generating questions with fixed answers. As contents are highly limited by given answers, these questions are often not worth discussing. In this paper, we take the first step on teaching machines to ask open-answered questions from real-world news for open discussion (openQG). To generate high-qualified questions, effective ways for question evaluation are required. We take the perspective that the more answers a question receives, the better it is for open discussion, and analyze how language use affects the number of answers. Compared with other factors, e.g. topic and post time, linguistic factors keep our evaluation from being domain-specific. We carefully perform variable control on 11.5M questions from online forums to get a dataset, OQRanD, and further perform question analysis. Based on these conclusions, several models are built for question evaluation. For openQG task, we construct OQGenD, the first dataset as far as we know, and propose a model based on conditional generative adversarial networks and our question evaluation model. Experiments show that our model can generate questions with higher quality compared with commonly-used text generation methods.
Learning from social-media conversations has gained significant attention recently because of its applications in areas like rumor detection. In this research, we propose a new way to represent social-media conversations as binarized constituency trees that allows comparing features in source-posts and their replies effectively. Moreover, we propose to use convolution units in Tree LSTMs that are better at learning patterns in features obtained from the source and reply posts. Our Tree LSTM models employ multi-task (stance + rumor) learning and propagate the useful stance signal up in the tree for rumor classification at the root node. The proposed models achieve state-of-the-art performance, outperforming the current best model by 12{\%} and 15{\%} on F1-macro for rumor-veracity classification and stance classification tasks respectively.
Neural extractive summarization models usually employ a hierarchical encoder for document encoding and they are trained using sentence-level labels, which are created heuristically using rule-based methods. Training the hierarchical encoder with these \textit{inaccurate} labels is challenging. Inspired by the recent work on pre-training transformer sentence encoders (Devlin et al., 2018), we propose Hibert (as shorthand for \textbf{HI}erachical \textbf{B}idirectional \textbf{E}ncoder \textbf{R}epresentations from \textbf{T}ransformers) for document encoding and a method to pre-train it using unlabeled data. We apply the pre-trained Hibert to our summarization model and it outperforms its randomly initialized counterpart by 1.25 ROUGE on the CNN/Dailymail dataset and by 2.0 ROUGE on a version of New York Times dataset. We also achieve the state-of-the-art performance on these two datasets.
In this paper, we develop a neural summarization model which can effectively process multiple input documents and distill Transformer architecture with the ability to encode documents in a hierarchical manner. We represent cross-document relationships via an attention mechanism which allows to share information as opposed to simply concatenating text spans and processing them as a flat sequence. Our model learns latent dependencies among textual units, but can also take advantage of explicit graph representations focusing on similarity or discourse relations. Empirical results on the WikiSum dataset demonstrate that the proposed architecture brings substantial improvements over several strong baselines.
This work proposes a novel framework for enhancing abstractive text summarization based on the combination of deep learning techniques along with semantic data transformations. Initially, a theoretical model for semantic-based text generalization is introduced and used in conjunction with a deep encoder-decoder architecture in order to produce a summary in generalized form. Subsequently, a methodology is proposed which transforms the aforementioned generalized summary into human-readable form, retaining at the same time important informational aspects of the original text and addressing the problem of out-of-vocabulary or rare words. The overall approach is evaluated on two popular datasets with encouraging results.
We propose an unsupervised method for sentence summarization using only language modeling. The approach employs two language models, one that is generic (i.e. pretrained), and the other that is specific to the target domain. We show that by using a product-of-experts criteria these are enough for maintaining continuous contextual matching while maintaining output fluency. Experiments on both abstractive and extractive sentence summarization data sets show promising results of our method without being exposed to any paired data.
Existing neural generation approaches create multi-sentence text as a single sequence. In this paper we propose a structured convolutional decoder that is guided by the content structure of target summaries. We compare our model with existing sequential decoders on three data sets representing different domains. Automatic and human evaluation demonstrate that our summaries have better content coverage.
We present a study of morphological irregularity. Following recent work, we define an information-theoretic measure of irregularity based on the predictability of forms in a language. Using a neural transduction model, we estimate this quantity for the forms in 28 languages. We first present several validatory and exploratory analyses of irregularity. We then show that our analyses provide evidence for a correlation between irregularity and frequency: higher frequency items are more likely to be irregular and irregular items are more likely be highly frequent. To our knowledge, this result is the first of its breadth and confirms longstanding proposals from the linguistics literature. The correlation is more robust when aggregated at the level of whole paradigms{---}providing support for models of linguistic structure in which inflected forms are unified by abstract underlying stems or lexemes.
We examine the benefits of visual context in training neural language models to perform next-word prediction. A multi-modal neural architecture is introduced that outperform its equivalent trained on language alone with a 2{\%} decrease in perplexity, even when no visual context is available at test. Fine-tuning the embeddings of a pre-trained state-of-the-art bidirectional language model (BERT) in the language modeling framework yields a 3.5{\%} improvement. The advantage for training with visual context when testing without is robust across different languages (English, German and Spanish) and different models (GRU, LSTM, Delta-RNN, as well as those that use BERT embeddings). Thus, language models perform better when they learn like a baby, i.e, in a multi-modal environment. This finding is compatible with the theory of situated cognition: language is inseparable from its physical context.
What is the relationship between sentence representations learned by deep recurrent models against those encoded by the brain? Is there any correspondence between hidden layers of these recurrent models and brain regions when processing sentences? Can these deep models be used to synthesize brain data which can then be utilized in other extrinsic tasks? We investigate these questions using sentences with simple syntax and semantics (e.g., The bone was eaten by the dog.). We consider multiple neural network architectures, including recently proposed ELMo and BERT. We use magnetoencephalography (MEG) brain recording data collected from human subjects when they were reading these simple sentences. Overall, we find that BERT{'}s activations correlate the best with MEG brain data. We also find that the deep network representation can be used to generate brain data from new sentences to augment existing brain data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work showing that the MEG brain recording when reading a word in a sentence can be used to distinguish earlier words in the sentence. Our exploration is also the first to use deep neural network representations to generate synthetic brain data and to show that it helps in improving subsequent stimuli decoding task accuracy.
Recent work shows that distributional semantic models can be used to decode patterns of brain activity associated with individual words and sentence meanings. However, it is yet unclear to what extent such models can be used to study and decode fMRI patterns associated with specific aspects of semantic composition such as the negation function. In this paper, we apply lexical and compositional semantic models to decode fMRI patterns associated with negated and affirmative sentences containing hand-action verbs. Our results show reduced decoding (correlation) of sentences where the verb is in the negated context, as compared to the affirmative one, within brain regions implicated in action-semantic processing. This supports behavioral and brain imaging studies, suggesting that negation involves reduced access to aspects of the affirmative mental representation. The results pave the way for testing alternate semantic models of negation against human semantic processing in the brain.
Sequence-processing neural networks led to remarkable progress on many NLP tasks. As a consequence, there has been increasing interest in understanding to what extent they process language as humans do. We aim here to uncover which biases such models display with respect to {``}natural{''} word-order constraints. We train models to communicate about paths in a simple gridworld, using miniature languages that reflect or violate various natural language trends, such as the tendency to avoid redundancy or to minimize long-distance dependencies. We study how the controlled characteristics of our miniature languages affect individual learning and their stability across multiple network generations. The results draw a mixed picture. On the one hand, neural networks show a strong tendency to avoid long-distance dependencies. On the other hand, there is no clear preference for the efficient, non-redundant encoding of information that is widely attested in natural language. We thus suggest inoculating a notion of {``}effort{''} into neural networks, as a possible way to make their linguistic behavior more human-like.
Named entity recognition (NER) is widely used in natural language processing applications and downstream tasks. However, most NER tools target flat annotation from popular datasets, eschewing the semantic information available in nested entity mentions. We describe NNE{---}a fine-grained, nested named entity dataset over the full Wall Street Journal portion of the Penn Treebank (PTB). Our annotation comprises 279,795 mentions of 114 entity types with up to 6 layers of nesting. We hope the public release of this large dataset for English newswire will encourage development of new techniques for nested NER.
Sequential labeling-based NER approaches restrict each word belonging to at most one entity mention, which will face a serious problem when recognizing nested entity mentions. In this paper, we propose to resolve this problem by modeling and leveraging the head-driven phrase structures of entity mentions, i.e., although a mention can nest other mentions, they will not share the same head word. Specifically, we propose Anchor-Region Networks (ARNs), a sequence-to-nuggets architecture for nested mention detection. ARNs first identify anchor words (i.e., possible head words) of all mentions, and then recognize the mention boundaries for each anchor word by exploiting regular phrase structures. Furthermore, we also design Bag Loss, an objective function which can train ARNs in an end-to-end manner without using any anchor word annotation. Experiments show that ARNs achieve the state-of-the-art performance on three standard nested entity mention detection benchmarks.
Constituting highly informative network embeddings is an essential tool for network analysis. It encodes network topology, along with other useful side information, into low dimensional node-based feature representations that can be exploited by statistical modeling. This work focuses on learning context-aware network embeddings augmented with text data. We reformulate the network embedding problem, and present two novel strategies to improve over traditional attention mechanisms: (i) a content-aware sparse attention module based on optimal transport; and (ii) a high-level attention parsing module. Our approach yields naturally sparse and self-normalized relational inference. It can capture long-term interactions between sequences, thus addressing the challenges faced by existing textual network embedding schemes. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate our model can consistently outperform alternative state-of-the-art methods.
While the fast-paced inception of novel tasks and new datasets helps foster active research in a community towards interesting directions, keeping track of the abundance of research activity in different areas on different datasets is likely to become increasingly difficult. The community could greatly benefit from an automatic system able to summarize scientific results, e.g., in the form of a leaderboard. In this paper we build two datasets and develop a framework (TDMS-IE) aimed at automatically extracting task, dataset, metric and score from NLP papers, towards the automatic construction of leaderboards. Experiments show that our model outperforms several baselines by a large margin. Our model is a first step towards automatic leaderboard construction, e.g., in the NLP domain.
Supplementing product information by extracting attribute values from title is a crucial task in e-Commerce domain. Previous studies treat each attribute only as an entity type and build one set of NER tags (e.g., BIO) for each of them, leading to a scalability issue which unfits to the large sized attribute system in real world e-Commerce. In this work, we propose a novel approach to support value extraction scaling up to thousands of attributes without losing performance: (1) We propose to regard attribute as a query and adopt only one global set of BIO tags for any attributes to reduce the burden of attribute tag or model explosion; (2) We explicitly model the semantic representations for attribute and title, and develop an attention mechanism to capture the interactive semantic relations in-between to enforce our framework to be attribute comprehensive. We conduct extensive experiments in real-life datasets. The results show that our model not only outperforms existing state-of-the-art NER tagging models, but also is robust and generates promising results for up to 8,906 attributes.
Keyphrases, that concisely describe the high-level topics discussed in a document, are very useful for a wide range of natural language processing tasks. Though existing keyphrase generation methods have achieved remarkable performance on this task, they generate many overlapping phrases (including sub-phrases or super-phrases) of keyphrases. In this paper, we propose the parallel Seq2Seq network with the coverage attention to alleviate the overlapping phrase problem. Specifically, we integrate the linguistic constraints of keyphrase into the basic Seq2Seq network on the source side, and employ the multi-task learning framework on the target side. In addition, in order to prevent from generating overlapping phrases of keyphrases with correct syntax, we introduce the coverage vector to keep track of the attention history and to decide whether the parts of source text have been covered by existing generated keyphrases. Experimental results show that our method can outperform the state-of-the-art CopyRNN on scientific datasets, and is also more effective in news domain.
An arithmetic word problem typically includes a textual description containing several constant quantities. The key to solving the problem is to reveal the underlying mathematical relations (such as addition and subtraction) among quantities, and then generate equations to find solutions. This work presents a novel approach, \textit{Quantity Tagger}, that automatically discovers such hidden relations by tagging each quantity with a \textit{sign} corresponding to one type of mathematical operation. For each quantity, we assume there exists a latent, variable-sized \textit{quantity span} surrounding the quantity token in the text, which conveys information useful for determining its sign. Empirical results show that our method achieves 5 and 8 points of accuracy gains on two datasets respectively, compared to prior approaches.
Multi-label classification (MLC) aims to predict a set of labels for a given instance. Based on a pre-defined label order, the sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) model trained via maximum likelihood estimation method has been successfully applied to the MLC task and shows powerful ability to capture high-order correlations between labels. However, the output labels are essentially an unordered set rather than an ordered sequence. This inconsistency tends to result in some intractable problems, e.g., sensitivity to the label order. To remedy this, we propose a simple but effective sequence-to-set model. The proposed model is trained via reinforcement learning, where reward feedback is designed to be independent of the label order. In this way, we can reduce the dependence of the model on the label order, as well as capture high-order correlations between labels. Extensive experiments show that our approach can substantially outperform competitive baselines, as well as effectively reduce the sensitivity to the label order.
Being able to recognize words as slots and detect the intent of an utterance has been a keen issue in natural language understanding. The existing works either treat slot filling and intent detection separately in a pipeline manner, or adopt joint models which sequentially label slots while summarizing the utterance-level intent without explicitly preserving the hierarchical relationship among words, slots, and intents. To exploit the semantic hierarchy for effective modeling, we propose a capsule-based neural network model which accomplishes slot filling and intent detection via a dynamic routing-by-agreement schema. A re-routing schema is proposed to further synergize the slot filling performance using the inferred intent representation. Experiments on two real-world datasets show the effectiveness of our model when compared with other alternative model architectures, as well as existing natural language understanding services.
Lack of labeled training data is a major bottleneck for neural network based aspect and opinion term extraction on product reviews. To alleviate this problem, we first propose an algorithm to automatically mine extraction rules from existing training examples based on dependency parsing results. The mined rules are then applied to label a large amount of auxiliary data. Finally, we study training procedures to train a neural model which can learn from both the data automatically labeled by the rules and a small amount of data accurately annotated by human. Experimental results show that although the mined rules themselves do not perform well due to their limited flexibility, the combination of human annotated data and rule labeled auxiliary data can improve the neural model and allow it to achieve performance better than or comparable with the current state-of-the-art.
In supervised event detection, most of the mislabeling occurs between a small number of confusing type pairs, including trigger-NIL pairs and sibling sub-types of the same coarse type. To address this label confusion problem, this paper proposes cost-sensitive regularization, which can force the training procedure to concentrate more on optimizing confusing type pairs. Specifically, we introduce a cost-weighted term into the training loss, which penalizes more on mislabeling between confusing label pairs. Furthermore, we also propose two estimators which can effectively measure such label confusion based on instance-level or population-level statistics. Experiments on TAC-KBP 2017 datasets demonstrate that the proposed method can significantly improve the performances of different models in both English and Chinese event detection.
Traditional approaches to the task of ACE event extraction usually depend on manually annotated data, which is often laborious to create and limited in size. Therefore, in addition to the difficulty of event extraction itself, insufficient training data hinders the learning process as well. To promote event extraction, we first propose an event extraction model to overcome the roles overlap problem by separating the argument prediction in terms of roles. Moreover, to address the problem of insufficient training data, we propose a method to automatically generate labeled data by editing prototypes and screen out generated samples by ranking the quality. Experiments on the ACE2005 dataset demonstrate that our extraction model can surpass most existing extraction methods. Besides, incorporating our generation method exhibits further significant improvement. It obtains new state-of-the-art results on the event extraction task, including pushing the F1 score of trigger classification to 81.1{\%}, and the F1 score of argument classification to 58.9{\%}.
Open information extraction (IE) is the task of extracting open-domain assertions from natural language sentences. A key step in open IE is confidence modeling, ranking the extractions based on their estimated quality to adjust precision and recall of extracted assertions. We found that the extraction likelihood, a confidence measure used by current supervised open IE systems, is not well calibrated when comparing the quality of assertions extracted from different sentences. We propose an additional binary classification loss to calibrate the likelihood to make it more globally comparable, and an iterative learning process, where extractions generated by the open IE model are incrementally included as training samples to help the model learn from trial and error. Experiments on OIE2016 demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Code and data are available at https://github.com/jzbjyb/oie{\_}rank.
Most of the recently proposed neural models for named entity recognition have been purely data-driven, with a strong emphasis on getting rid of the efforts for collecting external resources or designing hand-crafted features. This could increase the chance of overfitting since the models cannot access any supervision signal beyond the small amount of annotated data, limiting their power to generalize beyond the annotated entities. In this work, we show that properly utilizing external gazetteers could benefit segmental neural NER models. We add a simple module on the recently proposed hybrid semi-Markov CRF architecture and observe some promising results.
Relation Extraction is the task of identifying entity mention spans in raw text and then identifying relations between pairs of the entity mentions. Recent approaches for this span-level task have been token-level models which have inherent limitations. They cannot easily define and implement span-level features, cannot model overlapping entity mentions and have cascading errors due to the use of sequential decoding. To address these concerns, we present a model which directly models all possible spans and performs joint entity mention detection and relation extraction. We report a new state-of-the-art performance of 62.83 F1 (prev best was 60.49) on the ACE2005 dataset.
Most of the unsupervised dependency parsers are based on probabilistic generative models that learn the joint distribution of the given sentence and its parse. Probabilistic generative models usually explicit decompose the desired dependency tree into factorized grammar rules, which lack the global features of the entire sentence. In this paper, we propose a novel probabilistic model called discriminative neural dependency model with valence (D-NDMV) that generates a sentence and its parse from a continuous latent representation, which encodes global contextual information of the generated sentence. We propose two approaches to model the latent representation: the first deterministically summarizes the representation from the sentence and the second probabilistically models the representation conditioned on the sentence. Our approach can be regarded as a new type of autoencoder model to unsupervised dependency parsing that combines the benefits of both generative and discriminative techniques. In particular, our approach breaks the context-free independence assumption in previous generative approaches and therefore becomes more expressive. Our extensive experimental results on seventeen datasets from various sources show that our approach achieves competitive accuracy compared with both generative and discriminative state-of-the-art unsupervised dependency parsers.
We propose two neural network architectures for nested named entity recognition (NER), a setting in which named entities may overlap and also be labeled with more than one label. We encode the nested labels using a linearized scheme. In our first proposed approach, the nested labels are modeled as multilabels corresponding to the Cartesian product of the nested labels in a standard LSTM-CRF architecture. In the second one, the nested NER is viewed as a sequence-to-sequence problem, in which the input sequence consists of the tokens and output sequence of the labels, using hard attention on the word whose label is being predicted. The proposed methods outperform the nested NER state of the art on four corpora: ACE-2004, ACE-2005, GENIA and Czech CNEC. We also enrich our architectures with the recently published contextual embeddings: ELMo, BERT and Flair, reaching further improvements for the four nested entity corpora. In addition, we report flat NER state-of-the-art results for CoNLL-2002 Dutch and Spanish and for CoNLL-2003 English.
Probabilistic finite automata (PFAs) are com- mon statistical language model in natural lan- guage and speech processing. A typical task for PFAs is to compute the probability of all strings that match a query pattern. An impor- tant special case of this problem is computing the probability of a string appearing as a pre- fix, suffix, or infix. These problems find use in many natural language processing tasks such word prediction and text error correction. Recently, we gave the first incremental algorithm to efficiently compute the infix probabilities of each prefix of a string (Cognetta et al., 2018). We develop an asymptotic improvement of that algorithm and solve the open problem of computing the infix probabilities of PFAs from streaming data, which is crucial when process- ing queries online and is the ultimate goal of the incremental approach.
There are many different ways in which external information might be used in a NLP task. This paper investigates how external syntactic information can be used most effectively in the Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) task. We evaluate three different ways of encoding syntactic parses and three different ways of injecting them into a state-of-the-art neural ELMo-based SRL sequence labelling model. We show that using a constituency representation as input features improves performance the most, achieving a new state-of-the-art for non-ensemble SRL models on the in-domain CoNLL{'}05 and CoNLL{'}12 benchmarks.
The Penn Treebank (PTB) represents syntactic structures as graphs due to nonlocal dependencies. This paper proposes a method that approximates PTB graph-structured representations by trees. By our approximation method, we can reduce nonlocal dependency identification and constituency parsing into single tree-based parsing. An experimental result demonstrates that our approximation method with an off-the-shelf tree-based constituency parser significantly outperforms the previous methods in nonlocal dependency identification.
We use parsing as sequence labeling as a common framework to learn across constituency and dependency syntactic abstractions.To do so, we cast the problem as multitask learning (MTL). First, we show that adding a parsing paradigm as an auxiliary loss consistently improves the performance on the other paradigm. Secondly, we explore an MTL sequence labeling model that parses both representations, at almost no cost in terms of performance and speed. The results across the board show that on average MTL models with auxiliary losses for constituency parsing outperform single-task ones by 1.05 F1 points, and for dependency parsing by 0.62 UAS points.
Natural Language Processing has been perplexed for many years by the problem that multiple semantics are mixed inside a word, even with the help of context. To solve this problem, we propose a prism module to disentangle the semantic aspects of words and reduce noise at the input layer of a model. In the prism module, some words are selectively replaced with task-related semantic aspects, then these denoised word representations can be fed into downstream tasks to make them easier. Besides, we also introduce a structure to train this module jointly with the downstream model without additional data. This module can be easily integrated into the downstream model and significantly improve the performance of baselines on named entity recognition (NER) task. The ablation analysis demonstrates the rationality of the method. As a side effect, the proposed method also provides a way to visualize the contribution of each word.
Retrieve-and-edit based approaches to structured prediction, where structures associated with retrieved neighbors are edited to form new structures, have recently attracted increased interest. However, much recent work merely conditions on retrieved structures (e.g., in a sequence-to-sequence framework), rather than explicitly manipulating them. We show we can perform accurate sequence labeling by explicitly (and only) copying labels from retrieved neighbors. Moreover, because this copying is label-agnostic, we can achieve impressive performance in zero-shot sequence-labeling tasks. We additionally consider a dynamic programming approach to sequence labeling in the presence of retrieved neighbors, which allows for controlling the number of distinct (copied) segments used to form a prediction, and leads to both more interpretable and accurate predictions.
One challenge for dialogue agents is recognizing feelings in the conversation partner and replying accordingly, a key communicative skill. While it is straightforward for humans to recognize and acknowledge others{'} feelings in a conversation, this is a significant challenge for AI systems due to the paucity of suitable publicly-available datasets for training and evaluation. This work proposes a new benchmark for empathetic dialogue generation and EmpatheticDialogues, a novel dataset of 25k conversations grounded in emotional situations. Our experiments indicate that dialogue models that use our dataset are perceived to be more empathetic by human evaluators, compared to models merely trained on large-scale Internet conversation data. We also present empirical comparisons of dialogue model adaptations for empathetic responding, leveraging existing models or datasets without requiring lengthy re-training of the full model.
In this paper, a novel Generation-Evaluation framework is developed for multi-turn conversations with the objective of letting both participants know more about each other. For the sake of rational knowledge utilization and coherent conversation flow, a dialogue strategy which controls knowledge selection is instantiated and continuously adapted via reinforcement learning. Under the deployed strategy, knowledge grounded conversations are conducted with two dialogue agents. The generated dialogues are comprehensively evaluated on aspects like informativeness and coherence, which are aligned with our objective and human instinct. These assessments are integrated as a compound reward to guide the evolution of dialogue strategy via policy gradient. Comprehensive experiments have been carried out on the publicly available dataset, demonstrating that the proposed method outperforms the other state-of-the-art approaches significantly.
Despite their popularity in the chatbot literature, retrieval-based models have had modest impact on task-oriented dialogue systems, with the main obstacle to their application being the low-data regime of most task-oriented dialogue tasks. Inspired by the recent success of pretraining in language modelling, we propose an effective method for deploying response selection in task-oriented dialogue. To train response selection models for task-oriented dialogue tasks, we propose a novel method which: 1) pretrains the response selection model on large general-domain conversational corpora; and then 2) fine-tunes the pretrained model for the target dialogue domain, relying only on the small in-domain dataset to capture the nuances of the given dialogue domain. Our evaluation on five diverse application domains, ranging from e-commerce to banking, demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed training method.
We wish to develop interactive agents that can communicate with humans to collaboratively solve tasks in grounded scenarios. Since computer games allow us to simulate such tasks without the need for physical robots, we define a Minecraft-based collaborative building task in which one player (A, the Architect) is shown a target structure and needs to instruct the other player (B, the Builder) to build this structure. Both players interact via a chat interface. A can observe B but cannot place blocks. We present the Minecraft Dialogue Corpus, a collection of 509 conversations and game logs. As a first step towards our goal of developing fully interactive agents for this task, we consider the subtask of Architect utterance generation, and show how challenging it is.
We present open domain dialogue generation with meta-words. A meta-word is a structured record that describes attributes of a response, and thus allows us to explicitly model the one-to-many relationship within open domain dialogues and perform response generation in an explainable and controllable manner. To incorporate meta-words into generation, we propose a novel goal-tracking memory network that formalizes meta-word expression as a goal in response generation and manages the generation process to achieve the goal with a state memory panel and a state controller. Experimental results from both automatic evaluation and human judgment on two large-scale data sets indicate that our model can significantly outperform state-of-the-art generation models in terms of response relevance, response diversity, and accuracy of meta-word expression.
Although neural conversational models are effective in learning how to produce fluent responses, their primary challenge lies in knowing what to say to make the conversation contentful and non-vacuous. We present a new end-to-end approach to contentful neural conversation that jointly models response generation and on-demand machine reading. The key idea is to provide the conversation model with relevant long-form text on the fly as a source of external knowledge. The model performs QA-style reading comprehension on this text in response to each conversational turn, thereby allowing for more focused integration of external knowledge than has been possible in prior approaches. To support further research on knowledge-grounded conversation, we introduce a new large-scale conversation dataset grounded in external web pages (2.8M turns, 7.4M sentences of grounding). Both human evaluation and automated metrics show that our approach results in more contentful responses compared to a variety of previous methods, improving both the informativeness and diversity of generated output.
Multimodal dialogue systems have opened new frontiers in the traditional goal-oriented dialogue systems. The state-of-the-art dialogue systems are primarily based on unimodal sources, predominantly the text, and hence cannot capture the information present in the other sources such as videos, audios, images etc. With the availability of large scale multimodal dialogue dataset (MMD) (Saha et al., 2018) on the fashion domain, the visual appearance of the products is essential for understanding the intention of the user. Without capturing the information from both the text and image, the system will be incapable of generating correct and desirable responses. In this paper, we propose a novel position and attribute aware attention mechanism to learn enhanced image representation conditioned on the user utterance. Our evaluation shows that the proposed model can generate appropriate responses while preserving the position and attribute information. Experimental results also prove that our proposed approach attains superior performance compared to the baseline models, and outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches on text similarity based evaluation metrics.
Dialogue contexts are proven helpful in the spoken language understanding (SLU) system and they are typically encoded with explicit memory representations. However, most of the previous models learn the context memory with only one objective to maximizing the SLU performance, leaving the context memory under-exploited. In this paper, we propose a new dialogue logistic inference (DLI) task to consolidate the context memory jointly with SLU in the multi-task framework. DLI is defined as sorting a shuffled dialogue session into its original logical order and shares the same memory encoder and retrieval mechanism as the SLU model. Our experimental results show that various popular contextual SLU models can benefit from our approach, and improvements are quite impressive, especially in slot filling.
Existing personalized dialogue models use human designed persona descriptions to improve dialogue consistency. Collecting such descriptions from existing dialogues is expensive and requires hand-crafted feature designs. In this paper, we propose to extend Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML) (Finn et al., 2017) to personalized dialogue learning without using any persona descriptions. Our model learns to quickly adapt to new personas by leveraging only a few dialogue samples collected from the same user, which is fundamentally different from conditioning the response on the persona descriptions. Empirical results on Persona-chat dataset (Zhang et al., 2018) indicate that our solution outperforms non-meta-learning baselines using automatic evaluation metrics, and in terms of human-evaluated fluency and consistency.
Comprehending multi-turn spoken conversations is an emerging research area, presenting challenges different from reading comprehension of passages due to the interactive nature of information exchange from at least two speakers. Unlike passages, where sentences are often the default semantic modeling unit, in multi-turn conversations, a turn is a topically coherent unit embodied with immediately relevant context, making it a linguistically intuitive segment for computationally modeling verbal interactions. Therefore, in this work, we propose a hierarchical attention neural network architecture, combining turn-level and word-level attention mechanisms, to improve spoken dialogue comprehension performance. Experiments are conducted on a multi-turn conversation dataset, where nurses inquire and discuss symptom information with patients. We empirically show that the proposed approach outperforms standard attention baselines, achieves more efficient learning outcomes, and is more robust to lengthy and out-of-distribution test samples.
A spoken language understanding (SLU) system includes two main tasks, slot filling (SF) and intent detection (ID). The joint model for the two tasks is becoming a tendency in SLU. But the bi-directional interrelated connections between the intent and slots are not established in the existing joint models. In this paper, we propose a novel bi-directional interrelated model for joint intent detection and slot filling. We introduce an SF-ID network to establish direct connections for the two tasks to help them promote each other mutually. Besides, we design an entirely new iteration mechanism inside the SF-ID network to enhance the bi-directional interrelated connections. The experimental results show that the relative improvement in the sentence-level semantic frame accuracy of our model is 3.79{\%} and 5.42{\%} on ATIS and Snips datasets, respectively, compared to the state-of-the-art model.
Natural language understanding (NLU) and natural language generation (NLG) are both critical research topics in the NLP and dialogue fields. Natural language understanding is to extract the core semantic meaning from the given utterances, while natural language generation is opposite, of which the goal is to construct corresponding sentences based on the given semantics. However, such dual relationship has not been investigated in literature. This paper proposes a novel learning framework for natural language understanding and generation on top of dual supervised learning, providing a way to exploit the duality. The preliminary experiments show that the proposed approach boosts the performance for both tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of the dual relationship.
In goal-oriented dialog systems, belief trackers estimate the probability distribution of slot-values at every dialog turn. Previous neural approaches have modeled domain- and slot-dependent belief trackers, and have difficulty in adding new slot-values, resulting in lack of flexibility of domain ontology configurations. In this paper, we propose a new approach to universal and scalable belief tracker, called slot-utterance matching belief tracker (SUMBT). The model learns the relations between domain-slot-types and slot-values appearing in utterances through attention mechanisms based on contextual semantic vectors. Furthermore, the model predicts slot-value labels in a non-parametric way. From our experiments on two dialog corpora, WOZ 2.0 and MultiWOZ, the proposed model showed performance improvement in comparison with slot-dependent methods and achieved the state-of-the-art joint accuracy.
Task-oriented dialog systems increasingly rely on deep learning-based slot filling models, usually needing extensive labeled training data for target domains. Often, however, little to no target domain training data may be available, or the training and target domain schemas may be misaligned, as is common for web forms on similar websites. Prior zero-shot slot filling models use slot descriptions to learn concepts, but are not robust to misaligned schemas. We propose utilizing both the slot description and a small number of examples of slot values, which may be easily available, to learn semantic representations of slots which are transferable across domains and robust to misaligned schemas. Our approach outperforms state-of-the-art models on two multi-domain datasets, especially in the low-data setting.
Identifying the unknown (novel) user intents that have never appeared in the training set is a challenging task in the dialogue system. In this paper, we present a two-stage method for detecting unknown intents. We use bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) network with the margin loss as the feature extractor. With margin loss, we can learn discriminative deep features by forcing the network to maximize inter-class variance and to minimize intra-class variance. Then, we feed the feature vectors to the density-based novelty detection algorithm, local outlier factor (LOF), to detect unknown intents. Experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our method can yield consistent improvements compared with the baseline methods.
Multi-turn conversations consist of complex semantic structures, and it is still a challenge to generate coherent and diverse responses given previous utterances. It{'}s practical that a conversation takes place under a background, meanwhile, the query and response are usually most related and they are consistent in topic but also different in content. However, little work focuses on such hierarchical relationship among utterances. To address this problem, we propose a Conversational Semantic Relationship RNN (CSRR) model to construct the dependency explicitly. The model contains latent variables in three hierarchies. The discourse-level one captures the global background, the pair-level one stands for the common topic information between query and response, and the utterance-level ones try to represent differences in content. Experimental results show that our model significantly improves the quality of responses in terms of fluency, coherence, and diversity compared to baseline methods.
The Air Travel Information Service (ATIS) corpus has been the most common benchmark for evaluating Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) tasks for more than three decades since it was released. Recent state-of-the-art neural models have obtained F1-scores near 98{\%} on the task of slot filling. We developed a rule-based grammar for the ATIS domain that achieves a 95.82{\%} F1-score on our evaluation set. In the process, we furthermore discovered numerous shortcomings in the ATIS corpus annotation, which we have fixed. This paper presents a detailed account of these shortcomings, our proposed repairs, our rule-based grammar and the neural slot-filling architectures associated with ATIS. We also rationally reappraise the motivations for choosing a neural architecture in view of this account. Fixing the annotation errors results in a relative error reduction of between 19.4 and 52{\%} across all architectures. We nevertheless argue that neural models must play a different role in ATIS dialogues because of the latter{'}s lack of variety.
We treat projective dependency trees as latent variables in our probabilistic model and induce them in such a way as to be beneficial for a downstream task, without relying on any direct tree supervision. Our approach relies on Gumbel perturbations and differentiable dynamic programming. Unlike previous approaches to latent tree learning, we stochastically sample global structures and our parser is fully differentiable. We illustrate its effectiveness on sentiment analysis and natural language inference tasks. We also study its properties on a synthetic structure induction task. Ablation studies emphasize the importance of both stochasticity and constraining latent structures to be projective trees.
Although the proper use of idioms can enhance the elegance of writing, the active use of various expressions is a challenge because remembering idioms is difficult. In this study, we address the problem of idiom recommendation by leveraging a neural machine translation framework, in which we suppose that idioms are written with one pseudo target language. Two types of real-life datasets are collected to support this study. Experimental results show that the proposed approach achieves promising performance compared with other baseline methods.
We show that sampling latent variables multiple times at a gradient step helps in improving a variational autoencoder and propose a simple and effective method to better exploit these latent variables through hidden state averaging. Consistent gains in performance on two different datasets, Penn Treebank and Yahoo, indicate the generalizability of our method.
Recent work establishes dataset difficulty and removes annotation artifacts via partial-input baselines (e.g., hypothesis-only model for SNLI or question-only model for VQA). A successful partial-input baseline indicates that the dataset is cheatable. But the converse is not necessarily true: failures of partial-input baselines do not mean the dataset is free of artifacts. We first design artificial datasets to illustrate how the trivial patterns that are only visible in the full input can evade any partial-input baseline. Next, we identify such artifacts in the SNLI dataset{---}a hypothesis-only model augmented with trivial patterns in the premise can solve 15{\%} of previously-thought {``}hard{''} examples. Our work provides a caveat for the use and creation of partial-input baselines for datasets.
While data augmentation is an important trick to boost the accuracy of deep learning methods in computer vision tasks, its study in natural language tasks is still very limited. In this paper, we present a novel data augmentation method for neural machine translation.Different from previous augmentation methods that randomly drop, swap or replace words with other words in a sentence, we softly augment a randomly chosen word in a sentence by its contextual mixture of multiple related words. More accurately, we replace the one-hot representation of a word by a distribution (provided by a language model) over the vocabulary, i.e., replacing the embedding of this word by a weighted combination of multiple semantically similar words. Since the weights of those words depend on the contextual information of the word to be replaced,the newly generated sentences capture much richer information than previous augmentation methods. Experimental results on both small scale and large scale machine translation data sets demonstrate the superiority of our method over strong baselines.
Adversarial domain adaptation has been recently proposed as an effective technique for textual matching tasks, such as question deduplication. Here we investigate the use of gradient reversal on adversarial domain adaptation to explicitly learn both shared and unshared (domain specific) representations between two textual domains. In doing so, gradient reversal learns features that explicitly compensate for domain mismatch, while still distilling domain specific knowledge that can improve target domain accuracy. We evaluate reversing gradients for adversarial adaptation on multiple domains, and demonstrate that it significantly outperforms other methods on question deduplication as well as on recognizing textual entailment (RTE) tasks, achieving up to 7{\%} absolute boost in base model accuracy on some datasets.
We report our ongoing work about a new deep architecture working in tandem with a statistical test procedure for jointly training texts and their label descriptions for multi-label and multi-class classification tasks. A statistical hypothesis testing method is used to extract the most informative words for each given class. These words are used as a class description for more label-aware text classification. Intuition is to help the model to concentrate on more informative words rather than more frequent ones. The model leverages the use of label descriptions in addition to the input text to enhance text classification performance. Our method is entirely data-driven, has no dependency on other sources of information than the training data, and is adaptable to different classification problems by providing appropriate training data without major hyper-parameter tuning. We trained and tested our system on several publicly available datasets, where we managed to improve the state-of-the-art on one set with a high margin and to obtain competitive results on all other ones.
While very deep neural networks have shown effectiveness for computer vision and text classification applications, how to increase the network depth of the neural machine translation (NMT) models for better translation quality remains a challenging problem. Directly stacking more blocks to the NMT model results in no improvement and even drop in performance. In this work, we propose an effective two-stage approach with three specially designed components to construct deeper NMT models, which result in significant improvements over the strong Transformer baselines on WMT14 English$\to$German and English$\to$French translation tasks.
Efficiently building an adversarial attacker for natural language processing (NLP) tasks is a real challenge. Firstly, as the sentence space is discrete, it is difficult to make small perturbations along the direction of gradients. Secondly, the fluency of the generated examples cannot be guaranteed. In this paper, we propose MHA, which addresses both problems by performing Metropolis-Hastings sampling, whose proposal is designed with the guidance of gradients. Experiments on IMDB and SNLI show that our proposed MHAoutperforms the baseline model on attacking capability. Adversarial training with MHA also leads to better robustness and performance.
Building explainable systems is a critical problem in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP), since most machine learning models provide no explanations for the predictions. Existing approaches for explainable machine learning systems tend to focus on interpreting the outputs or the connections between inputs and outputs. However, the fine-grained information (e.g. textual explanations for the labels) is often ignored, and the systems do not explicitly generate the human-readable explanations. To solve this problem, we propose a novel generative explanation framework that learns to make classification decisions and generate fine-grained explanations at the same time. More specifically, we introduce the explainable factor and the minimum risk training approach that learn to generate more reasonable explanations. We construct two new datasets that contain summaries, rating scores, and fine-grained reasons. We conduct experiments on both datasets, comparing with several strong neural network baseline systems. Experimental results show that our method surpasses all baselines on both datasets, and is able to generate concise explanations at the same time.
To combat adversarial spelling mistakes, we propose placing a word recognition model in front of the downstream classifier. Our word recognition models build upon the RNN semi-character architecture, introducing several new backoff strategies for handling rare and unseen words. Trained to recognize words corrupted by random adds, drops, swaps, and keyboard mistakes, our method achieves 32{\%} relative (and 3.3{\%} absolute) error reduction over the vanilla semi-character model. Notably, our pipeline confers robustness on the downstream classifier, outperforming both adversarial training and off-the-shelf spell checkers. Against a BERT model fine-tuned for sentiment analysis, a single adversarially-chosen character attack lowers accuracy from 90.3{\%} to 45.8{\%}. Our defense restores accuracy to 75{\%}. Surprisingly, better word recognition does not always entail greater robustness. Our analysis reveals that robustness also depends upon a quantity that we denote the sensitivity.
In this paper, we investigate the aspect of structured output modeling for the state-of-the-art graph-based neural dependency parser (Dozat and Manning, 2017). With evaluations on 14 treebanks, we empirically show that global output-structured models can generally obtain better performance, especially on the metric of sentence-level Complete Match. However, probably because neural models already learn good global views of the inputs, the improvement brought by structured output modeling is modest.
Automatically analyzing dialogue can help understand and guide behavior in domains such as counseling, where interactions are largely mediated by conversation. In this paper, we study modeling behavioral codes used to asses a psychotherapy treatment style called Motivational Interviewing (MI), which is effective for addressing substance abuse and related problems. Specifically, we address the problem of providing real-time guidance to therapists with a dialogue observer that (1) categorizes therapist and client MI behavioral codes and, (2) forecasts codes for upcoming utterances to help guide the conversation and potentially alert the therapist. For both tasks, we define neural network models that build upon recent successes in dialogue modeling. Our experiments demonstrate that our models can outperform several baselines for both tasks. We also report the results of a careful analysis that reveals the impact of the various network design tradeoffs for modeling therapy dialogue.
Developing Video-Grounded Dialogue Systems (VGDS), where a dialogue is conducted based on visual and audio aspects of a given video, is significantly more challenging than traditional image or text-grounded dialogue systems because (1) feature space of videos span across multiple picture frames, making it difficult to obtain semantic information; and (2) a dialogue agent must perceive and process information from different modalities (audio, video, caption, etc.) to obtain a comprehensive understanding. Most existing work is based on RNNs and sequence-to-sequence architectures, which are not very effective for capturing complex long-term dependencies (like in videos). To overcome this, we propose Multimodal Transformer Networks (MTN) to encode videos and incorporate information from different modalities. We also propose query-aware attention through an auto-encoder to extract query-aware features from non-text modalities. We develop a training procedure to simulate token-level decoding to improve the quality of generated responses during inference. We get state of the art performance on Dialogue System Technology Challenge 7 (DSTC7). Our model also generalizes to another multimodal visual-grounded dialogue task, and obtains promising performance.
Many real-world open-domain conversation applications have specific goals to achieve during open-ended chats, such as recommendation, psychotherapy, education, etc. We study the problem of imposing conversational goals on open-domain chat agents. In particular, we want a conversational system to chat naturally with human and proactively guide the conversation to a designated target subject. The problem is challenging as no public data is available for learning such a target-guided strategy. We propose a structured approach that introduces coarse-grained keywords to control the intended content of system responses. We then attain smooth conversation transition through turn-level supervised learning, and drive the conversation towards the target with discourse-level constraints. We further derive a keyword-augmented conversation dataset for the study. Quantitative and human evaluations show our system can produce meaningful and effective conversations, significantly improving over other approaches
Developing intelligent persuasive conversational agents to change people{'}s opinions and actions for social good is the frontier in advancing the ethical development of automated dialogue systems. To do so, the first step is to understand the intricate organization of strategic disclosures and appeals employed in human persuasion conversations. We designed an online persuasion task where one participant was asked to persuade the other to donate to a specific charity. We collected a large dataset with 1,017 dialogues and annotated emerging persuasion strategies from a subset. Based on the annotation, we built a baseline classifier with context information and sentence-level features to predict the 10 persuasion strategies used in the corpus. Furthermore, to develop an understanding of personalized persuasion processes, we analyzed the relationships between individuals{'} demographic and psychological backgrounds including personality, morality, value systems, and their willingness for donation. Then, we analyzed which types of persuasion strategies led to a greater amount of donation depending on the individuals{'} personal backgrounds. This work lays the ground for developing a personalized persuasive dialogue system.
Current neural network-based conversational models lack diversity and generate boring responses to open-ended utterances. Priors such as persona, emotion, or topic provide additional information to dialog models to aid response generation, but annotating a dataset with priors is expensive and such annotations are rarely available. While previous methods for improving the quality of open-domain response generation focused on either the underlying model or the training objective, we present a method of filtering dialog datasets by removing generic utterances from training data using a simple entropy-based approach that does not require human supervision. We conduct extensive experiments with different variations of our method, and compare dialog models across 17 evaluation metrics to show that training on datasets filtered this way results in better conversational quality as chatbots learn to output more diverse responses.
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) is a long-standing but open problem in Natural Language Processing (NLP). WSD corpora are typically small in size, owing to an expensive annotation process. Current supervised WSD methods treat senses as discrete labels and also resort to predicting the Most-Frequent-Sense (MFS) for words unseen during training. This leads to poor performance on rare and unseen senses. To overcome this challenge, we propose Extended WSD Incorporating Sense Embeddings (EWISE), a supervised model to perform WSD by predicting over a continuous sense embedding space as opposed to a discrete label space. This allows EWISE to generalize over both seen and unseen senses, thus achieving generalized zero-shot learning. To obtain target sense embeddings, EWISE utilizes sense definitions. EWISE learns a novel sentence encoder for sense definitions by using WordNet relations and also ConvE, a recently proposed knowledge graph embedding method. We also compare EWISE against other sentence encoders pretrained on large corpora to generate definition embeddings. EWISE achieves new state-of-the-art WSD performance.
Contextual embeddings represent a new generation of semantic representations learned from Neural Language Modelling (NLM) that addresses the issue of meaning conflation hampering traditional word embeddings. In this work, we show that contextual embeddings can be used to achieve unprecedented gains in Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) tasks. Our approach focuses on creating sense-level embeddings with full-coverage of WordNet, and without recourse to explicit knowledge of sense distributions or task-specific modelling. As a result, a simple Nearest Neighbors (k-NN) method using our representations is able to consistently surpass the performance of previous systems using powerful neural sequencing models. We also analyse the robustness of our approach when ignoring part-of-speech and lemma features, requiring disambiguation against the full sense inventory, and revealing shortcomings to be improved. Finally, we explore applications of our sense embeddings for concept-level analyses of contextual embeddings and their respective NLMs.
We present an unsupervised method to generate Word2Sense word embeddings that are interpretable {---} each dimension of the embedding space corresponds to a fine-grained sense, and the non-negative value of the embedding along the j-th dimension represents the relevance of the j-th sense to the word. The underlying LDA-based generative model can be extended to refine the representation of a polysemous word in a short context, allowing us to use the embedings in contextual tasks. On computational NLP tasks, Word2Sense embeddings compare well with other word embeddings generated by unsupervised methods. Across tasks such as word similarity, entailment, sense induction, and contextual interpretation, Word2Sense is competitive with the state-of-the-art method for that task. Word2Sense embeddings are at least as sparse and fast to compute as prior art.
Semantic compositionality (SC) refers to the phenomenon that the meaning of a complex linguistic unit can be composed of the meanings of its constituents. Most related works focus on using complicated compositionality functions to model SC while few works consider external knowledge in models. In this paper, we verify the effectiveness of sememes, the minimum semantic units of human languages, in modeling SC by a confirmatory experiment. Furthermore, we make the first attempt to incorporate sememe knowledge into SC models, and employ the sememe-incorporated models in learning representations of multiword expressions, a typical task of SC. In experiments, we implement our models by incorporating knowledge from a famous sememe knowledge base HowNet and perform both intrinsic and extrinsic evaluations. Experimental results show that our models achieve significant performance boost as compared to the baseline methods without considering sememe knowledge. We further conduct quantitative analysis and case studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of applying sememe knowledge in modeling SC.All the code and data of this paper can be obtained on https://github.com/thunlp/Sememe-SC.
The inability to quantify key aspects of creative language is a frequent obstacle to natural language understanding. To address this, we introduce novel tasks for evaluating the creativeness of language{---}namely, scoring and ranking text by humorousness and metaphor novelty. To sidestep the difficulty of assigning discrete labels or numeric scores, we learn from pairwise comparisons between texts. We introduce a Bayesian approach for predicting humorousness and metaphor novelty using Gaussian process preference learning (GPPL), which achieves a Spearman{'}s ρ of 0.56 against gold using word embeddings and linguistic features. Our experiments show that given sparse, crowdsourced annotation data, ranking using GPPL outperforms best{--}worst scaling. We release a new dataset for evaluating humour containing 28,210 pairwise comparisons of 4,030 texts, and make our software freely available.
The purpose of the research is to answer the question whether linguistic information is retained in vector representations of sentences. We introduce a method of analysing the content of sentence embeddings based on universal probing tasks, along with the classification datasets for two contrasting languages. We perform a series of probing and downstream experiments with different types of sentence embeddings, followed by a thorough analysis of the experimental results. Aside from dependency parser-based embeddings, linguistic information is retained best in the recently proposed LASER sentence embeddings.
Word embeddings typically represent different meanings of a word in a single conflated vector. Empirical analysis of embeddings of ambiguous words is currently limited by the small size of manually annotated resources and by the fact that word senses are treated as unrelated individual concepts. We present a large dataset based on manual Wikipedia annotations and word senses, where word senses from different words are related by semantic classes. This is the basis for novel diagnostic tests for an embedding{'}s content: we probe word embeddings for semantic classes and analyze the embedding space by classifying embeddings into semantic classes. Our main findings are: (i) Information about a sense is generally represented well in a single-vector embedding {--} if the sense is frequent. (ii) A classifier can accurately predict whether a word is single-sense or multi-sense, based only on its embedding. (iii) Although rare senses are not well represented in single-vector embeddings, this does not have negative impact on an NLP application whose performance depends on frequent senses.
We introduce a general method for the interpretation and comparison of neural models. The method is used to factor a complex neural model into its functional components, which are comprised of sets of co-firing neurons that cut across layers of the network architecture, and which we call neural pathways. The function of these pathways can be understood by identifying correlated task level and linguistic heuristics in such a way that this knowledge acts as a lens for approximating what the network has learned to apply to its intended task. As a case study for investigating the utility of these pathways, we present an examination of pathways identified in models trained for two standard tasks, namely Named Entity Recognition and Recognizing Textual Entailment.
Lexical relation classification is the task of predicting whether a certain relation holds between a given pair of words. In this paper, we explore to which extent the current distributional landscape based on word embeddings provides a suitable basis for classification of collocations, i.e., pairs of words between which idiosyncratic lexical relations hold. First, we introduce a novel dataset with collocations categorized according to lexical functions. Second, we conduct experiments on a subset of this benchmark, comparing it in particular to the well known DiffVec dataset. In these experiments, in addition to simple word vector arithmetic operations, we also investigate the role of unsupervised relation vectors as a complementary input. While these relation vectors indeed help, we also show that lexical function classification poses a greater challenge than the syntactic and semantic relations that are typically used for benchmarks in the literature.
In this paper we discuss the usefulness of applying a checking procedure to existing thesauri. The procedure is based on the analysis of discrepancies of corpus-based and thesaurus-based word similarities. We applied the procedure to more than 30 thousand words of the Russian wordnet and found some serious errors in word sense description, including inaccurate relationships and missing senses of ambiguous words.
This paper proposes Confusionset-guided Pointer Networks for Chinese Spell Check (CSC) task. More concretely, our approach utilizes the off-the-shelf confusionset for guiding the character generation. To this end, our novel Seq2Seq model jointly learns to copy a correct character from an input sentence through a pointer network, or generate a character from the confusionset rather than the entire vocabulary. We conduct experiments on three human-annotated datasets, and results demonstrate that our proposed generative model outperforms all competitor models by a large margin of up to 20{\%} F1 score, achieving state-of-the-art performance on three datasets.
Low-resource language pairs with a paucity of parallel data pose challenges for machine translation in terms of both adequacy and fluency. Data augmentation utilizing a large amount of monolingual data is regarded as an effective way to alleviate the problem. In this paper, we propose a general framework of data augmentation for low-resource machine translation not only using target-side monolingual data, but also by pivoting through a related high-resource language. Specifically, we experiment with a two-step pivoting method to convert high-resource data to the low-resource language, making best use of available resources to better approximate the true distribution of the low-resource language. First, we inject low-resource words into high-resource sentences through an induced bilingual dictionary. Second, we further edit the high-resource data injected with low-resource words using a modified unsupervised machine translation framework. Extensive experiments on four low-resource datasets show that under extreme low-resource settings, our data augmentation techniques improve translation quality by up to 1.5 to 8 BLEU points compared to supervised back-translation baselines.
Multi-head self-attention is a key component of the Transformer, a state-of-the-art architecture for neural machine translation. In this work we evaluate the contribution made by individual attention heads to the overall performance of the model and analyze the roles played by them in the encoder. We find that the most important and confident heads play consistent and often linguistically-interpretable roles. When pruning heads using a method based on stochastic gates and a differentiable relaxation of the L0 penalty, we observe that specialized heads are last to be pruned. Our novel pruning method removes the vast majority of heads without seriously affecting performance. For example, on the English-Russian WMT dataset, pruning 38 out of 48 encoder heads results in a drop of only 0.15 BLEU.
Unseen words, also called out-of-vocabulary words (OOVs), are difficult for machine translation. In neural machine translation, byte-pair encoding can be used to represent OOVs, but they are still often incorrectly translated. We improve the translation of OOVs in NMT using easy-to-obtain monolingual data. We look for OOVs in the text to be translated and translate them using simple-to-construct bilingual word embeddings (BWEs). In our MT experiments we take the 5-best candidates, which is motivated by intrinsic mining experiments. Using all five of the proposed target language words as queries we mine target-language sentences. We then back-translate, forcing the back-translation of each of the five proposed target-language OOV-translation-candidates to be the original source-language OOV. We show that by using this synthetic data to fine-tune our system the translation of OOVs can be dramatically improved. In our experiments we use a system trained on Europarl and mine sentences containing medical terms from monolingual data.
Simultaneous translation is widely useful but remains one of the most difficult tasks in NLP. Previous work either uses fixed-latency policies, or train a complicated two-staged model using reinforcement learning. We propose a much simpler single model that adds a {``}delay{''} token to the target vocabulary, and design a restricted dynamic oracle to greatly simplify training. Experiments on Chinese {\textless}-{\textgreater} English simultaneous translation show that our work leads to flexible policies that achieve better BLEU scores and lower latencies compared to both fixed and RL-learned policies.
To improve low-resource Neural Machine Translation (NMT) with multilingual corpus, training on the most related high-resource language only is generally more effective than us- ing all data available (Neubig and Hu, 2018). However, it remains a question whether a smart data selection strategy can further improve low-resource NMT with data from other auxiliary languages. In this paper, we seek to construct a sampling distribution over all multilingual data, so that it minimizes the training loss of the low-resource language. Based on this formulation, we propose and efficient algorithm, (TCS), which first samples a target sentence, and then conditionally samples its source sentence. Experiments show TCS brings significant gains of up to 2 BLEU improvements on three of four languages we test, with minimal training overhead.
De-identification is the task of detecting protected health information (PHI) in medical text. It is a critical step in sanitizing electronic health records (EHR) to be shared for research. Automatic de-identification classifiers can significantly speed up the sanitization process. However, obtaining a large and diverse dataset to train such a classifier that works well across many types of medical text poses a challenge as privacy laws prohibit the sharing of raw medical records. We introduce a method to create privacy-preserving shareable representations of medical text (i.e. they contain no PHI) that does not require expensive manual pseudonymization. These representations can be shared between organizations to create unified datasets for training de-identification models. Our representation allows training a simple LSTM-CRF de-identification model to an F1 score of 97.4{\%}, which is comparable to a strong baseline that exposes private information in its representation. A robust, widely available de-identification classifier based on our representation could potentially enable studies for which de-identification would otherwise be too costly.
Named entity recognition (NER) is one of the best studied tasks in natural language processing. However, most approaches are not capable of handling nested structures which are common in many applications. In this paper we introduce a novel neural network architecture that first merges tokens and/or entities into entities forming nested structures, and then labels each of them independently. Unlike previous work, our merge and label approach predicts real-valued instead of discrete segmentation structures, which allow it to combine word and nested entity embeddings while maintaining differentiability. We evaluate our approach using the ACE 2005 Corpus, where it achieves state-of-the-art F1 of 74.6, further improved with contextual embeddings (BERT) to 82.4, an overall improvement of close to 8 F1 points over previous approaches trained on the same data. Additionally we compare it against BiLSTM-CRFs, the dominant approach for flat NER structures, demonstrating that its ability to predict nested structures does not impact performance in simpler cases.
Entity resolution (ER) is the task of identifying different representations of the same real-world entities across databases. It is a key step for knowledge base creation and text mining. Recent adaptation of deep learning methods for ER mitigates the need for dataset-specific feature engineering by constructing distributed representations of entity records. While these methods achieve state-of-the-art performance over benchmark data, they require large amounts of labeled data, which are typically unavailable in realistic ER applications. In this paper, we develop a deep learning-based method that targets low-resource settings for ER through a novel combination of transfer learning and active learning. We design an architecture that allows us to learn a transferable model from a high-resource setting to a low-resource one. To further adapt to the target dataset, we incorporate active learning that carefully selects a few informative examples to fine-tune the transferred model. Empirical evaluation demonstrates that our method achieves comparable, if not better, performance compared to state-of-the-art learning-based methods while using an order of magnitude fewer labels.
Named entity recognition (NER) is the backbone of many NLP solutions. F1 score, the harmonic mean of precision and recall, is often used to select/evaluate the best models. However, when precision needs to be prioritized over recall, a state-of-the-art model might not be the best choice. There is little in literature that directly addresses training-time modifications to achieve higher precision information extraction. In this paper, we propose a neural semi-Markov structured support vector machine model that controls the precision-recall trade-off by assigning weights to different types of errors in the loss-augmented inference during training. The semi-Markov property provides more accurate phrase-level predictions, thereby improving performance. We empirically demonstrate the advantage of our model when high precision is required by comparing against strong baselines based on CRF. In our experiments with the CoNLL 2003 dataset, our model achieves a better precision-recall trade-off at various precision levels.
This paper studies automatic keyphrase extraction on social media. Previous works have achieved promising results on it, but they neglect human reading behavior during keyphrase annotating. The human attention is a crucial element of human reading behavior. It reveals the relevance of words to the main topics of the target text. Thus, this paper aims to integrate human attention into keyphrase extraction models. First, human attention is represented by the reading duration estimated from eye-tracking corpus. Then, we merge human attention with neural network models by an attention mechanism. In addition, we also integrate human attention into unsupervised models. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to utilize human attention on keyphrase extraction tasks. The experimental results show that our models have significant improvements on two Twitter datasets.
In this paper we frame the task of supervised relation classification as an instance of meta-learning. We propose a model-agnostic meta-learning protocol for training relation classifiers to achieve enhanced predictive performance in limited supervision settings. During training, we aim to not only learn good parameters for classifying relations with sufficient supervision, but also learn model parameters that can be fine-tuned to enhance predictive performance for relations with limited supervision. In experiments conducted on two relation classification datasets, we demonstrate that the proposed meta-learning approach improves the predictive performance of two state-of-the-art supervised relation classification models.
We introduce VAMPIRE, a lightweight pretraining framework for effective text classification when data and computing resources are limited. We pretrain a unigram document model as a variational autoencoder on in-domain, unlabeled data and use its internal states as features in a downstream classifier. Empirically, we show the relative strength of VAMPIRE against computationally expensive contextual embeddings and other popular semi-supervised baselines under low resource settings. We also find that fine-tuning to in-domain data is crucial to achieving decent performance from contextual embeddings when working with limited supervision. We accompany this paper with code to pretrain and use VAMPIRE embeddings in downstream tasks.
Pivot Based Language Modeling (PBLM) (Ziser and Reichart, 2018a), combining LSTMs with pivot-based methods, has yielded significant progress in unsupervised domain adaptation. However, this approach is still challenged by the large pivot detection problem that should be solved, and by the inherent instability of LSTMs. In this paper we propose a Task Refinement Learning (TRL) approach, in order to solve these problems. Our algorithms iteratively train the PBLM model, gradually increasing the information exposed about each pivot. TRL-PBLM achieves stateof- the-art accuracy in six domain adaptation setups for sentiment classification. Moreover, it is much more stable than plain PBLM across model configurations, making the model much better fitted for practical use.
String similarity models are vital for record linkage, entity resolution, and search. In this work, we present STANCE{--}a learned model for computing the similarity of two strings. Our approach encodes the characters of each string, aligns the encodings using Sinkhorn Iteration (alignment is posed as an instance of optimal transport) and scores the alignment with a convolutional neural network. We evaluate STANCE{'}s ability to detect whether two strings can refer to the same entity{--}a task we term alias detection. We construct five new alias detection datasets (and make them publicly available). We show that STANCE (or one of its variants) outperforms both state-of-the-art and classic, parameter-free similarity models on four of the five datasets. We also demonstrate STANCE{'}s ability to improve downstream tasks by applying it to an instance of cross-document coreference and show that it leads to a 2.8 point improvement in B{\^{}}3 F1 over the previous state-of-the-art approach.
We present a new architecture for storing and accessing entity mentions during online text processing. While reading the text, entity references are identified, and may be stored by either updating or overwriting a cell in a fixed-length memory. The update operation implies coreference with the other mentions that are stored in the same cell; the overwrite operation causes these mentions to be forgotten. By encoding the memory operations as differentiable gates, it is possible to train the model end-to-end, using both a supervised anaphora resolution objective as well as a supplementary language modeling objective. Evaluation on a dataset of pronoun-name anaphora demonstrates strong performance with purely incremental text processing.
Spectral models for learning weighted non-deterministic automata have nice theoretical and algorithmic properties. Despite this, it has been challenging to obtain competitive results in language modeling tasks, for two main reasons. First, in order to capture long-range dependencies of the data, the method must use statistics from long substrings, which results in very large matrices that are difficult to decompose. The second is that the loss function behind spectral learning, based on moment matching, differs from the probabilistic metrics used to evaluate language models. In this work we employ a technique for scaling up spectral learning, and use interpolated predictions that are optimized to maximize perplexity. Our experiments in character-based language modeling show that our method matches the performance of state-of-the-art ngram models, while being very fast to train.
It can be challenging to train multi-task neural networks that outperform or even match their single-task counterparts. To help address this, we propose using knowledge distillation where single-task models teach a multi-task model. We enhance this training with teacher annealing, a novel method that gradually transitions the model from distillation to supervised learning, helping the multi-task model surpass its single-task teachers. We evaluate our approach by multi-task fine-tuning BERT on the GLUE benchmark. Our method consistently improves over standard single-task and multi-task training.
Neural natural language generation (NNLG) from structured meaning representations has become increasingly popular in recent years. While we have seen progress with generating syntactically correct utterances that preserve semantics, various shortcomings of NNLG systems are clear: new tasks require new training data which is not available or straightforward to acquire, and model outputs are simple and may be dull and repetitive. This paper addresses these two critical challenges in NNLG by: (1) scalably (and at no cost) creating training datasets of parallel meaning representations and reference texts with rich style markup by using data from freely available and naturally descriptive user reviews, and (2) systematically exploring how the style markup enables joint control of semantic and stylistic aspects of neural model output. We present YelpNLG, a corpus of 300,000 rich, parallel meaning representations and highly stylistically varied reference texts spanning different restaurant attributes, and describe a novel methodology that can be scalably reused to generate NLG datasets for other domains. The experiments show that the models control important aspects, including lexical choice of adjectives, output length, and sentiment, allowing the models to successfully hit multiple style targets without sacrificing semantics.
In this paper, we explore a new approach for automated chess commentary generation, which aims to generate chess commentary texts in different categories (e.g., \textit{description}, \textit{comparison}, \textit{planning}, etc.). We introduce a neural chess engine into text generation models to help with encoding boards, predicting moves, and analyzing situations. By jointly training the neural chess engine and the generation models for different categories, the models become more effective. We conduct experiments on 5 categories in a benchmark Chess Commentary dataset and achieve inspiring results in both automatic and human evaluations.
Modeling human language requires the ability to not only generate fluent text but also encode factual knowledge. However, traditional language models are only capable of remembering facts seen at training time, and often have difficulty recalling them. To address this, we introduce the knowledge graph language model (KGLM), a neural language model with mechanisms for selecting and copying facts from a knowledge graph that are relevant to the context. These mechanisms enable the model to render information it has never seen before, as well as generate out-of-vocabulary tokens. We also introduce the Linked WikiText-2 dataset, a corpus of annotated text aligned to the Wikidata knowledge graph whose contents (roughly) match the popular WikiText-2 benchmark. In experiments, we demonstrate that the KGLM achieves significantly better performance than a strong baseline language model. We additionally compare different language model{'}s ability to complete sentences requiring factual knowledge, showing that the KGLM outperforms even very large language models in generating facts.
Prior work on controllable text generation usually assumes that the controlled attribute can take on one of a small set of values known a priori. In this work, we propose a novel task, where the syntax of a generated sentence is controlled rather by a sentential exemplar. To evaluate quantitatively with standard metrics, we create a novel dataset with human annotations. We also develop a variational model with a neural module specifically designed for capturing syntactic knowledge and several multitask training objectives to promote disentangled representation learning. Empirically, the proposed model is observed to achieve improvements over baselines and learn to capture desirable characteristics.
The comprehensive descriptions for factual attribute-value tables, which should be accurate, informative and loyal, can be very helpful for end users to understand the structured data in this form. However previous neural generators might suffer from key attributes missing, less informative and groundless information problems, which impede the generation of high-quality comprehensive descriptions for tables. To relieve these problems, we first propose force attention (FA) method to encourage the generator to pay more attention to the uncovered attributes to avoid potential key attributes missing. Furthermore, we propose reinforcement learning for information richness to generate more informative as well as more loyal descriptions for tables. In our experiments, we utilize the widely used WIKIBIO dataset as a benchmark. Besides, we create WB-filter based on WIKIBIO to test our model in the simulated user-oriented scenarios, in which the generated descriptions should accord with particular user interests. Experimental results show that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines on both automatic and human evaluation.
Disentangling the content and style in the latent space is prevalent in unpaired text style transfer. However, two major issues exist in most of the current neural models. 1) It is difficult to completely strip the style information from the semantics for a sentence. 2) The recurrent neural network (RNN) based encoder and decoder, mediated by the latent representation, cannot well deal with the issue of the long-term dependency, resulting in poor preservation of non-stylistic semantic content. In this paper, we propose the Style Transformer, which makes no assumption about the latent representation of source sentence and equips the power of attention mechanism in Transformer to achieve better style transfer and better content preservation.
Variational auto-encoders (VAEs) are widely used in natural language generation due to the regularization of the latent space. However, generating sentences from the continuous latent space does not explicitly model the syntactic information. In this paper, we propose to generate sentences from disentangled syntactic and semantic spaces. Our proposed method explicitly models syntactic information in the VAE{'}s latent space by using the linearized tree sequence, leading to better performance of language generation. Additionally, the advantage of sampling in the disentangled syntactic and semantic latent spaces enables us to perform novel applications, such as the unsupervised paraphrase generation and syntax transfer generation. Experimental results show that our proposed model achieves similar or better performance in various tasks, compared with state-of-the-art related work.
Automatic story ending generation is an interesting and challenging task in natural language generation. Previous studies are mainly limited to generate coherent, reasonable and diversified story endings, and few works focus on controlling the sentiment of story endings. This paper focuses on generating a story ending which meets the given fine-grained sentiment intensity. There are two major challenges to this task. First is the lack of story corpus which has fine-grained sentiment labels. Second is the difficulty of explicitly controlling sentiment intensity when generating endings. Therefore, we propose a generic and novel framework which consists of a sentiment analyzer and a sentimental generator, respectively addressing the two challenges. The sentiment analyzer adopts a series of methods to acquire sentiment intensities of the story dataset. The sentimental generator introduces the sentiment intensity into decoder via a Gaussian Kernel Layer to control the sentiment of the output. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first endeavor to control the fine-grained sentiment for story ending generation without manually annotating sentiment labels. Experiments show that our proposed framework can generate story endings which are not only more coherent and fluent but also able to meet the given sentiment intensity better.
Neural architectures based on self-attention, such as Transformers, recently attracted interest from the research community, and obtained significant improvements over the state of the art in several tasks. We explore how Transformers can be adapted to the task of Neural Question Generation without constraining the model to focus on a specific answer passage. We study the effect of several strategies to deal with out-of-vocabulary words such as copy mechanisms, placeholders, and contextual word embeddings. We report improvements obtained over the state-of-the-art on the SQuAD dataset according to automated metrics (BLEU, ROUGE), as well as qualitative human assessments of the system outputs.
Paraphrasing is an important task demonstrating the ability to abstract semantic content from its surface form. Recent literature on automatic paraphrasing is dominated by methods leveraging machine translation as an intermediate step. This contrasts with humans, who can paraphrase without necessarily being bilingual. This work proposes to learn paraphrasing models only from a monolingual corpus. To that end, we propose a residual variant of vector-quantized variational auto-encoder. Our experiments consider paraphrase identification, and paraphrasing for training set augmentation, comparing to supervised and unsupervised translation-based approaches. Monolingual paraphrasing is shown to outperform unsupervised translation in all contexts. The comparison with supervised MT is more mixed: monolingual paraphrasing is interesting for identification and augmentation but supervised MT is superior for generation.
Information need of humans is essentially multimodal in nature, enabling maximum exploitation of situated context. We introduce a dataset for sequential procedural (how-to) text generation from images in cooking domain. The dataset consists of 16,441 cooking recipes with 160,479 photos associated with different steps. We setup a baseline motivated by the best performing model in terms of human evaluation for the Visual Story Telling (ViST) task. In addition, we introduce two models to incorporate high level structure learnt by a Finite State Machine (FSM) in neural sequential generation process by: (1) Scaffolding Structure in Decoder (SSiD) (2) Scaffolding Structure in Loss (SSiL). Our best performing model (SSiL) achieves a METEOR score of 0.31, which is an improvement of 0.6 over the baseline model. We also conducted human evaluation of the generated grounded recipes, which reveal that 61{\%} found that our proposed (SSiL) model is better than the baseline model in terms of overall recipes. We also discuss analysis of the output highlighting key important NLP issues for prospective directions.
Paraphrase generation can be regarded as monolingual translation. Unlike bilingual machine translation, paraphrase generation rewrites only a limited portion of an input sentence. Hence, previous methods based on machine translation often perform conservatively to fail to make necessary rewrites. To solve this problem, we propose a neural model for paraphrase generation that first identifies words in the source sentence that should be paraphrased. Then, these words are paraphrased by the negative lexically constrained decoding that avoids outputting these words as they are. Experiments on text simplification and formality transfer show that our model improves the quality of paraphrasing by making necessary rewrites to an input sentence.
Large-scale pretrained language models define state of the art in natural language processing, achieving outstanding performance on a variety of tasks. We study how these architectures can be applied and adapted for natural language generation, comparing a number of architectural and training schemes. We focus in particular on open-domain dialog as a typical high entropy generation task, presenting and comparing different architectures for adapting pretrained models with state of the art results.
Sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models have achieved tremendous success in text generation tasks. However, there is no guarantee that they can always generate sentences without grammatical errors. In this paper, we present a preliminary empirical study on whether and how much automatic grammatical error correction can help improve seq2seq text generation. We conduct experiments across various seq2seq text generation tasks including machine translation, formality style transfer, sentence compression and simplification. Experiments show the state-of-the-art grammatical error correction system can improve the grammaticality of generated text and can bring task-oriented improvements in the tasks where target sentences are in a formal style.
Despite the advancement of question answering (QA) systems and rapid improvements on held-out test sets, their generalizability is a topic of concern. We explore the robustness of QA models to question paraphrasing by creating two test sets consisting of paraphrased SQuAD questions. Paraphrased questions from the first test set are very similar to the original questions designed to test QA models{'} over-sensitivity, while questions from the second test set are paraphrased using context words near an incorrect answer candidate in an attempt to confuse QA models. We show that both paraphrased test sets lead to significant decrease in performance on multiple state-of-the-art QA models. Using a neural paraphrasing model trained to generate multiple paraphrased questions for a given source question and a set of paraphrase suggestions, we propose a data augmentation approach that requires no human intervention to re-train the models for improved robustness to question paraphrasing.
The conventional paradigm in neural question answering (QA) for narrative content is limited to a two-stage process: first, relevant text passages are retrieved and, subsequently, a neural network for machine comprehension extracts the likeliest answer. However, both stages are largely isolated in the status quo and, hence, information from the two phases is never properly fused. In contrast, this work proposes RankQA: RankQA extends the conventional two-stage process in neural QA with a third stage that performs an additional answer re-ranking. The re-ranking leverages different features that are directly extracted from the QA pipeline, i.e., a combination of retrieval and comprehension features. While our intentionally simple design allows for an efficient, data-sparse estimation, it nevertheless outperforms more complex QA systems by a significant margin: in fact, RankQA achieves state-of-the-art performance on 3 out of 4 benchmark datasets. Furthermore, its performance is especially superior in settings where the size of the corpus is dynamic. Here the answer re-ranking provides an effective remedy against the underlying noise-information trade-off due to a variable corpus size. As a consequence, RankQA represents a novel, powerful, and thus challenging baseline for future research in content-based QA.
Recent work on open domain question answering (QA) assumes strong supervision of the supporting evidence and/or assumes a blackbox information retrieval (IR) system to retrieve evidence candidates. We argue that both are suboptimal, since gold evidence is not always available, and QA is fundamentally different from IR. We show for the first time that it is possible to jointly learn the retriever and reader from question-answer string pairs and without any IR system. In this setting, evidence retrieval from all of Wikipedia is treated as a latent variable. Since this is impractical to learn from scratch, we pre-train the retriever with an Inverse Cloze Task. We evaluate on open versions of five QA datasets. On datasets where the questioner already knows the answer, a traditional IR system such as BM25 is sufficient. On datasets where a user is genuinely seeking an answer, we show that learned retrieval is crucial, outperforming BM25 by up to 19 points in exact match.
Multi-hop Reading Comprehension (RC) requires reasoning and aggregation across several paragraphs. We propose a system for multi-hop RC that decomposes a compositional question into simpler sub-questions that can be answered by off-the-shelf single-hop RC models. Since annotations for such decomposition are expensive, we recast subquestion generation as a span prediction problem and show that our method, trained using only 400 labeled examples, generates sub-questions that are as effective as human-authored sub-questions. We also introduce a new global rescoring approach that considers each decomposition (i.e. the sub-questions and their answers) to select the best final answer, greatly improving overall performance. Our experiments on HotpotQA show that this approach achieves the state-of-the-art results, while providing explainable evidence for its decision making in the form of sub-questions.
Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) is a pronoun resolution task which seems to require reasoning with commonsense knowledge. The needed knowledge is not present in the given text. Automatic extraction of the needed knowledge is a bottleneck in solving the challenge. The existing state-of-the-art approach uses the knowledge embedded in their pre-trained language model. However, the language models only embed part of the knowledge, the ones related to frequently co-existing concepts. This limits the performance of such models on the WSC problems. In this work, we build-up on the language model based methods and augment them with a commonsense knowledge hunting (using automatic extraction from text) module and an explicit reasoning module. Our end-to-end system built in such a manner improves on the accuracy of two of the available language model based approaches by 5.53{\%} and 7.7{\%} respectively. Overall our system achieves the state-of-the-art accuracy of 71.06{\%} on the WSC dataset, an improvement of 7.36{\%} over the previous best.
Open book question answering is a type of natural language based QA (NLQA) where questions are expected to be answered with respect to a given set of open book facts, and common knowledge about a topic. Recently a challenge involving such QA, OpenBookQA, has been proposed. Unlike most other NLQA that focus on linguistic understanding, OpenBookQA requires deeper reasoning involving linguistic understanding as well as reasoning with common knowledge. In this paper we address QA with respect to the OpenBookQA dataset and combine state of the art language models with abductive information retrieval (IR), information gain based re-ranking, passage selection and weighted scoring to achieve 72.0{\%} accuracy, an 11.6{\%} improvement over the current state of the art.
Relation detection is a core step in many natural language process applications including knowledge base question answering. Previous efforts show that single-fact questions could be answered with high accuracy. However, one critical problem is that current approaches only get high accuracy for questions whose relations have been seen in the training data. But for unseen relations, the performance will drop rapidly. The main reason for this problem is that the representations for unseen relations are missing. In this paper, we propose a simple mapping method, named representation adapter, to learn the representation mapping for both seen and unseen relations based on previously learned relation embedding. We employ the adversarial objective and the reconstruction objective to improve the mapping performance. We re-organize the popular SimpleQuestion dataset to reveal and evaluate the problem of detecting unseen relations. Experiments show that our method can greatly improve the performance of unseen relations while the performance for those seen part is kept comparable to the state-of-the-art.
Text-based question answering (TBQA) has been studied extensively in recent years. Most existing approaches focus on finding the answer to a question within a single paragraph. However, many difficult questions require multiple supporting evidence from scattered text among two or more documents. In this paper, we propose Dynamically Fused Graph Network (DFGN), a novel method to answer those questions requiring multiple scattered evidence and reasoning over them. Inspired by human{'}s step-by-step reasoning behavior, DFGN includes a dynamic fusion layer that starts from the entities mentioned in the given query, explores along the entity graph dynamically built from the text, and gradually finds relevant supporting entities from the given documents. We evaluate DFGN on HotpotQA, a public TBQA dataset requiring multi-hop reasoning. DFGN achieves competitive results on the public board. Furthermore, our analysis shows DFGN produces interpretable reasoning chains.
Rule-based models are attractive for various tasks because they inherently lead to interpretable and explainable decisions and can easily incorporate prior knowledge. However, such systems are difficult to apply to problems involving natural language, due to its large linguistic variability. In contrast, neural models can cope very well with ambiguity by learning distributed representations of words and their composition from data, but lead to models that are difficult to interpret. In this paper, we describe a model combining neural networks with logic programming in a novel manner for solving multi-hop reasoning tasks over natural language. Specifically, we propose to use an Prolog prover which we extend to utilize a similarity function over pretrained sentence encoders. We fine-tune the representations for the similarity function via backpropagation. This leads to a system that can apply rule-based reasoning to natural language, and induce domain-specific natural language rules from training data. We evaluate the proposed system on two different question answering tasks, showing that it outperforms two baselines {--} BiDAF (Seo et al., 2016a) and FastQA( Weissenborn et al., 2017) on a subset of the WikiHop corpus and achieves competitive results on the MedHop data set (Welbl et al., 2017).
Several deep learning models have been proposed for solving math word problems (MWPs) automatically. Although these models have the ability to capture features without manual efforts, their approaches to capturing features are not specifically designed for MWPs. To utilize the merits of deep learning models with simultaneous consideration of MWPs{'} specific features, we propose a group attention mechanism to extract global features, quantity-related features, quantity-pair features and question-related features in MWPs respectively. The experimental results show that the proposed approach performs significantly better than previous state-of-the-art methods, and boost performance from 66.9{\%} to 69.5{\%} on Math23K with training-test split, from 65.8{\%} to 66.9{\%} on Math23K with 5-fold cross-validation and from 69.2{\%} to 76.1{\%} on MAWPS.
We introduce a novel method of generating synthetic question answering corpora by combining models of question generation and answer extraction, and by filtering the results to ensure roundtrip consistency. By pretraining on the resulting corpora we obtain significant improvements on SQuAD2 and NQ, establishing a new state-of-the-art on the latter. Our synthetic data generation models, for both question generation and answer extraction, can be fully reproduced by finetuning a publicly available BERT model on the extractive subsets of SQuAD2 and NQ. We also describe a more powerful variant that does full sequence-to-sequence pretraining for question generation, obtaining exact match and F1 at less than 0.1{\%} and 0.4{\%} from human performance on SQuAD2.
Although current evaluation of question-answering systems treats predictions in isolation, we need to consider the relationship between predictions to measure true understanding. A model should be penalized for answering {``}no{''} to {``}Is the rose red?{''} if it answers {``}red{''} to {``}What color is the rose?{''}. We propose a method to automatically extract such implications for instances from two QA datasets, VQA and SQuAD, which we then use to evaluate the consistency of models. Human evaluation shows these generated implications are well formed and valid. Consistency evaluation provides crucial insights into gaps in existing models, while retraining with implication-augmented data improves consistency on both synthetic and human-generated implications.
Conversational machine reading comprehension (CMRC) extends traditional single-turn machine reading comprehension (MRC) by multi-turn interactions, which requires machines to consider the history of conversation. Most of models simply combine previous questions for conversation understanding and only employ recurrent neural networks (RNN) for reasoning. To comprehend context profoundly and efficiently from different perspectives, we propose a novel neural network model, Multi-perspective Convolutional Cube (MC{\^{}}2). We regard each conversation as a cube. 1D and 2D convolutions are integrated with RNN in our model. To avoid models previewing the next turn of conversation, we also extend causal convolution partially to 2D. Experiments on the Conversational Question Answering (CoQA) dataset show that our model achieves state-of-the-art results.
While neural machine translation (NMT) has achieved remarkable success, NMT systems are prone to make word omission errors. In this work, we propose a contrastive learning approach to reducing word omission errors in NMT. The basic idea is to enable the NMT model to assign a higher probability to a ground-truth translation and a lower probability to an erroneous translation, which is automatically constructed from the ground-truth translation by omitting words. We design different types of negative examples depending on the number of omitted words, word frequency, and part of speech. Experiments on Chinese-to-English, German-to-English, and Russian-to-English translation tasks show that our approach is effective in reducing word omission errors and achieves better translation performance than three baseline methods.
In this work, we present novel approaches to exploit sentential context for neural machine translation (NMT). Specifically, we show that a shallow sentential context extracted from the top encoder layer only, can improve translation performance via contextualizing the encoding representations of individual words. Next, we introduce a deep sentential context, which aggregates the sentential context representations from all of the internal layers of the encoder to form a more comprehensive context representation. Experimental results on the WMT14 English-German and English-French benchmarks show that our model consistently improves performance over the strong Transformer model, demonstrating the necessity and effectiveness of exploiting sentential context for NMT.
Multilingual individuals code switch between languages as a part of a complex communication process. However, most computational studies have examined only one or a handful of contextual factors predictive of switching. Here, we examine Naija-English code switching in a rich contextual environment to understand the social and topical factors eliciting a switch. We introduce a new corpus of 330K articles and accompanying 389K comments labeled for code switching behavior. In modeling whether a comment will switch, we show that topic-driven variation, tribal affiliation, emotional valence, and audience design all play complementary roles in behavior.
Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) are commonly used to train and evaluate neural networks efficiently. While previous work in deep learning has focused on accelerating operations on dense matrices/tensors on GPUs, efforts have concentrated on operations involving sparse data structures. Operations using sparse structures are common in natural language models at the input and output layers, because these models operate on sequences over discrete alphabets. We present two new GPU algorithms: one at the input layer, for multiplying a matrix by a few-hot vector (generalizing the more common operation of multiplication by a one-hot vector) and one at the output layer, for a fused softmax and top-N selection (commonly used in beam search). Our methods achieve speedups over state-of-the-art parallel GPU baselines of up to 7x and 50x, respectively. We also illustrate how our methods scale on different GPU architectures.
We present a fully automated workflow for phylogenetic reconstruction on large datasets, consisting of two novel methods, one for fast detection of cognates and one for fast Bayesian phylogenetic inference. Our results show that the methods take less than a few minutes to process language families that have so far required large amounts of time and computational power. Moreover, the cognates and the trees inferred from the method are quite close, both to gold standard cognate judgments and to expert language family trees. Given its speed and ease of application, our framework is specifically useful for the exploration of very large datasets in historical linguistics.
Single document summarization has enjoyed renewed interest in recent years thanks to the popularity of neural network models and the availability of large-scale datasets. In this paper we develop an unsupervised approach arguing that it is unrealistic to expect large-scale and high-quality training data to be available or created for different types of summaries, domains, or languages. We revisit a popular graph-based ranking algorithm and modify how node (aka sentence) centrality is computed in two ways: (a) we employ BERT, a state-of-the-art neural representation learning model to better capture sentential meaning and (b) we build graphs with directed edges arguing that the contribution of any two nodes to their respective centrality is influenced by their relative position in a document. Experimental results on three news summarization datasets representative of different languages and writing styles show that our approach outperforms strong baselines by a wide margin.
We introduce a novel semantic parsing task based on Discourse Representation Theory (DRT; Kamp and Reyle 1993). Our model operates over Discourse Representation Tree Structures which we formally define for sentences and documents. We present a general framework for parsing discourse structures of arbitrary length and granularity. We achieve this with a neural model equipped with a supervised hierarchical attention mechanism and a linguistically-motivated copy strategy. Experimental results on sentence- and document-level benchmarks show that our model outperforms competitive baselines by a wide margin.
Automatic summarization is typically treated as a 1-to-1 mapping from document to summary. Documents such as news articles, however, are structured and often cover multiple topics or aspects; and readers may be interested in only some of them. We tackle the task of aspect-based summarization, where, given a document and a target aspect, our models generate a summary centered around the aspect. We induce latent document structure jointly with an abstractive summarization objective, and train our models in a scalable synthetic setup. In addition to improvements in summarization over topic-agnostic baselines, we demonstrate the benefit of the learnt document structure: we show that our models (a) learn to accurately segment documents by aspect; (b) can leverage the structure to produce both abstractive and extractive aspect-based summaries; and (c) that structure is particularly advantageous for summarizing long documents. All results transfer from synthetic training documents to natural news articles from CNN/Daily Mail and RCV1.
Feature attribution methods, proposed recently, help users interpret the predictions of complex models. Our approach integrates feature attributions into the objective function to allow machine learning practitioners to incorporate priors in model building. To demonstrate the effectiveness our technique, we apply it to two tasks: (1) mitigating unintended bias in text classifiers by neutralizing identity terms; (2) improving classifier performance in scarce data setting by forcing model to focus on toxic terms. Our approach adds an L2 distance loss between feature attributions and task-specific prior values to the objective. Our experiments show that i) a classifier trained with our technique reduces undesired model biases without a tradeoff on the original task; ii) incorporating prior helps model performance in scarce data settings.
Identifying the relationship between two articles, e.g., whether two articles published from different sources describe the same breaking news, is critical to many document understanding tasks. Existing approaches for modeling and matching sentence pairs do not perform well in matching longer documents, which embody more complex interactions between the enclosed entities than a sentence does. To model article pairs, we propose the Concept Interaction Graph to represent an article as a graph of concepts. We then match a pair of articles by comparing the sentences that enclose the same concept vertex through a series of encoding techniques, and aggregate the matching signals through a graph convolutional network. To facilitate the evaluation of long article matching, we have created two datasets, each consisting of about 30K pairs of breaking news articles covering diverse topics in the open domain. Extensive evaluations of the proposed methods on the two datasets demonstrate significant improvements over a wide range of state-of-the-art methods for natural language matching.
Multi-Label Hierarchical Text Classification (MLHTC) is the task of categorizing documents into one or more topics organized in an hierarchical taxonomy. MLHTC can be formulated by combining multiple binary classification problems with an independent classifier for each category. We propose a novel transfer learning based strategy, HTrans, where binary classifiers at lower levels in the hierarchy are initialized using parameters of the parent classifier and fine-tuned on the child category classification task. In HTrans, we use a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU)-based deep learning architecture coupled with attention. Compared to binary classifiers trained from scratch, our HTrans approach results in significant improvements of 1{\%} on micro-F1 and 3{\%} on macro-F1 on the RCV1 dataset. Our experiments also show that binary classifiers trained from scratch are significantly better than single multi-label models.
In this paper, we attempt to answer the question of whether neural network models can learn numeracy, which is the ability to predict the magnitude of a numeral at some specific position in a text description. A large benchmark dataset, called Numeracy-600K, is provided for the novel task. We explore several neural network models including CNN, GRU, BiGRU, CRNN, CNN-capsule, GRU-capsule, and BiGRU-capsule in the experiments. The results show that the BiGRU model gets the best micro-averaged F1 score of 80.16{\%}, and the GRU-capsule model gets the best macro-averaged F1 score of 64.71{\%}. Besides discussing the challenges through comprehensive experiments, we also present an important application scenario, i.e., detecting exaggerated information, for the task.
We consider Large-Scale Multi-Label Text Classification (LMTC) in the legal domain. We release a new dataset of 57k legislative documents from EUR-LEX, annotated with ∼4.3k EUROVOC labels, which is suitable for LMTC, few- and zero-shot learning. Experimenting with several neural classifiers, we show that BIGRUs with label-wise attention perform better than other current state of the art methods. Domain-specific WORD2VEC and context-sensitive ELMO embeddings further improve performance. We also find that considering only particular zones of the documents is sufficient. This allows us to bypass BERT{'}s maximum text length limit and fine-tune BERT, obtaining the best results in all but zero-shot learning cases.
To address the lack of comparative evaluation of Human-in-the-Loop Topic Modeling (HLTM) systems, we implement and evaluate three contrasting HLTM modeling approaches using simulation experiments. These approaches extend previously proposed frameworks, including constraints and informed prior-based methods. Users should have a sense of control in HLTM systems, so we propose a control metric to measure whether refinement operations{'} results match users{'} expectations. Informed prior-based methods provide better control than constraints, but constraints yield higher quality topics.
While paragraph embedding models are remarkably effective for downstream classification tasks, what they learn and encode into a single vector remains opaque. In this paper, we investigate a state-of-the-art paragraph embedding method proposed by Zhang et al. (2017) and discover that it cannot reliably tell whether a given sentence occurs in the input paragraph or not. We formulate a sentence content task to probe for this basic linguistic property and find that even a much simpler bag-of-words method has no trouble solving it. This result motivates us to replace the reconstruction-based objective of Zhang et al. (2017) with our sentence content probe objective in a semi-supervised setting. Despite its simplicity, our objective improves over paragraph reconstruction in terms of (1) downstream classification accuracies on benchmark datasets, (2) faster training, and (3) better generalization ability.
We describe a multi-task learning approach to train a Neural Machine Translation (NMT) model with a Relevance-based Auxiliary Task (RAT) for search query translation. The translation process for Cross-lingual Information Retrieval (CLIR) task is usually treated as a black box and it is performed as an independent step. However, an NMT model trained on sentence-level parallel data is not aware of the vocabulary distribution of the retrieval corpus. We address this problem and propose a multi-task learning architecture that achieves 16{\%} improvement over a strong baseline on Italian-English query-document dataset. We show using both quantitative and qualitative analysis that our model generates balanced and precise translations with the regularization effect it achieves from multi-task learning paradigm.
We propose a novel neural topic model in the Wasserstein autoencoders (WAE) framework. Unlike existing variational autoencoder based models, we directly enforce Dirichlet prior on the latent document-topic vectors. We exploit the structure of the latent space and apply a suitable kernel in minimizing the Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) to perform distribution matching. We discover that MMD performs much better than the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) in matching high dimensional Dirichlet distribution. We further discover that incorporating randomness in the encoder output during training leads to significantly more coherent topics. To measure the diversity of the produced topics, we propose a simple topic uniqueness metric. Together with the widely used coherence measure NPMI, we offer a more wholistic evaluation of topic quality. Experiments on several real datasets show that our model produces significantly better topics than existing topic models.
Understanding narrated instructional videos is important for both research and real-world web applications. Motivated by video dense captioning, we propose a model to generate procedure captions from narrated instructional videos which are a sequence of step-wise clips with description. Previous works on video dense captioning learn video segments and generate captions without considering transcripts. We argue that transcripts in narrated instructional videos can enhance video representation by providing fine-grained complimentary and semantic textual information. In this paper, we introduce a framework to (1) extract procedures by a cross-modality module, which fuses video content with the entire transcript; and (2) generate captions by encoding video frames as well as a snippet of transcripts within each extracted procedure. Experiments show that our model can achieve state-of-the-art performance in procedure extraction and captioning, and the ablation studies demonstrate that both the video frames and the transcripts are important for the task.
In this work, we propose to model the interaction between visual and textual features for multi-modal neural machine translation (MMT) through a latent variable model. This latent variable can be seen as a multi-modal stochastic embedding of an image and its description in a foreign language. It is used in a target-language decoder and also to predict image features. Importantly, our model formulation utilises visual and textual inputs during training but does not require that images be available at test time. We show that our latent variable MMT formulation improves considerably over strong baselines, including a multi-task learning approach (Elliott and Kadar, 2017) and a conditional variational auto-encoder approach (Toyama et al., 2016). Finally, we show improvements due to (i) predicting image features in addition to only conditioning on them, (ii) imposing a constraint on the KL term to promote models with non-negligible mutual information between inputs and latent variable, and (iii) by training on additional target-language image descriptions (i.e. synthetic data).
We consider the task of identifying human actions visible in online videos. We focus on the widely spread genre of lifestyle vlogs, which consist of videos of people performing actions while verbally describing them. Our goal is to identify if actions mentioned in the speech description of a video are visually present. We construct a dataset with crowdsourced manual annotations of visible actions, and introduce a multimodal algorithm that leverages information derived from visual and linguistic clues to automatically infer which actions are visible in a video.
We introduce a new dataset for joint reasoning about natural language and images, with a focus on semantic diversity, compositionality, and visual reasoning challenges. The data contains 107,292 examples of English sentences paired with web photographs. The task is to determine whether a natural language caption is true about a pair of photographs. We crowdsource the data using sets of visually rich images and a compare-and-contrast task to elicit linguistically diverse language. Qualitative analysis shows the data requires compositional joint reasoning, including about quantities, comparisons, and relations. Evaluation using state-of-the-art visual reasoning methods shows the data presents a strong challenge.
We propose a segmental neural language model that combines the generalization power of neural networks with the ability to discover word-like units that are latent in unsegmented character sequences. In contrast to previous segmentation models that treat word segmentation as an isolated task, our model unifies word discovery, learning how words fit together to form sentences, and, by conditioning the model on visual context, how words{'} meanings ground in representations of nonlinguistic modalities. Experiments show that the unconditional model learns predictive distributions better than character LSTM models, discovers words competitively with nonparametric Bayesian word segmentation models, and that modeling language conditional on visual context improves performance on both.
The ability to engage in goal-oriented conversations has allowed humans to gain knowledge, reduce uncertainty, and perform tasks more efficiently. Artificial agents, however, are still far behind humans in having goal-driven conversations. In this work, we focus on the task of goal-oriented visual dialogue, aiming to automatically generate a series of questions about an image with a single objective. This task is challenging since these questions must not only be consistent with a strategy to achieve a goal, but also consider the contextual information in the image. We propose an end-to-end goal-oriented visual dialogue system, that combines reinforcement learning with regularized information gain. Unlike previous approaches that have been proposed for the task, our work is motivated by the Rational Speech Act framework, which models the process of human inquiry to reach a goal. We test the two versions of our model on the GuessWhat?! dataset, obtaining significant results that outperform the current state-of-the-art models in the task of generating questions to find an undisclosed object in an image.
A widespread approach to processing spoken language is to first automatically transcribe it into text. An alternative is to use an end-to-end approach: recent works have proposed to learn semantic embeddings of spoken language from images with spoken captions, without an intermediate transcription step. We propose to use multitask learning to exploit existing transcribed speech within the end-to-end setting. We describe a three-task architecture which combines the objectives of matching spoken captions with corresponding images, speech with text, and text with images. We show that the addition of the speech/text task leads to substantial performance improvements on image retrieval when compared to training the speech/image task in isolation. We conjecture that this is due to a strong inductive bias transcribed speech provides to the model, and offer supporting evidence for this.
This paper presents a new model for visual dialog, Recurrent Dual Attention Network (ReDAN), using multi-step reasoning to answer a series of questions about an image. In each question-answering turn of a dialog, ReDAN infers the answer progressively through multiple reasoning steps. In each step of the reasoning process, the semantic representation of the question is updated based on the image and the previous dialog history, and the recurrently-refined representation is used for further reasoning in the subsequent step. On the VisDial v1.0 dataset, the proposed ReDAN model achieves a new state-of-the-art of 64.47{\%} NDCG score. Visualization on the reasoning process further demonstrates that ReDAN can locate context-relevant visual and textual clues via iterative refinement, which can lead to the correct answer step-by-step.
Recent advances in sequence modeling have highlighted the strengths of the transformer architecture, especially in achieving state-of-the-art machine translation results. However, depending on the up-stream systems, e.g., speech recognition, or word segmentation, the input to translation system can vary greatly. The goal of this work is to extend the attention mechanism of the transformer to naturally consume the lattice in addition to the traditional sequential input. We first propose a general lattice transformer for speech translation where the input is the output of the automatic speech recognition (ASR) which contains multiple paths and posterior scores. To leverage the extra information from the lattice structure, we develop a novel controllable lattice attention mechanism to obtain latent representations. On the LDC Spanish-English speech translation corpus, our experiments show that lattice transformer generalizes significantly better and outperforms both a transformer baseline and a lattice LSTM. Additionally, we validate our approach on the WMT 2017 Chinese-English translation task with lattice inputs from different BPE segmentations. In this task, we also observe the improvements over strong baselines.
An image caption should fluently present the essential information in a given image, including informative, fine-grained entity mentions and the manner in which these entities interact. However, current captioning models are usually trained to generate captions that only contain common object names, thus falling short on an important {``}informativeness{''} dimension. We present a mechanism for integrating image information together with fine-grained labels (assumed to be generated by some upstream models) into a caption that describes the image in a fluent and informative manner. We introduce a multimodal, multi-encoder model based on Transformer that ingests both image features and multiple sources of entity labels. We demonstrate that we can learn to control the appearance of these entity labels in the output, resulting in captions that are both fluent and informative.
In this work, we propose a goal-driven collaborative task that combines language, perception, and action. Specifically, we develop a Collaborative image-Drawing game between two agents, called CoDraw. Our game is grounded in a virtual world that contains movable clip art objects. The game involves two players: a Teller and a Drawer. The Teller sees an abstract scene containing multiple clip art pieces in a semantically meaningful configuration, while the Drawer tries to reconstruct the scene on an empty canvas using available clip art pieces. The two players communicate with each other using natural language. We collect the CoDraw dataset of {\textasciitilde}10K dialogs consisting of {\textasciitilde}138K messages exchanged between human players. We define protocols and metrics to evaluate learned agents in this testbed, highlighting the need for a novel {``}crosstalk{''} evaluation condition which pairs agents trained independently on disjoint subsets of the training data. We present models for our task and benchmark them using both fully automated evaluation and by having them play the game live with humans.
Image Captioning aims at generating a short description for an image. Existing research usually employs the architecture of CNN-RNN that views the generation as a sequential decision-making process and the entire dataset vocabulary is used as decoding space. They suffer from generating high frequent n-gram with irrelevant words. To tackle this problem, we propose to construct an image-grounded vocabulary, based on which, captions are generated with limitation and guidance. In specific, a novel hierarchical structure is proposed to construct the vocabulary incorporating both visual information and relations among words. For generation, we propose a word-aware RNN cell incorporating vocabulary information into the decoding process directly. Reinforce algorithm is employed to train the generator using constraint vocabulary as action space. Experimental results on MS COCO and Flickr30k show the effectiveness of our framework compared to some state-of-the-art models.
Previous work on multimodal machine translation has shown that visual information is only needed in very specific cases, for example in the presence of ambiguous words where the textual context is not sufficient. As a consequence, models tend to learn to ignore this information. We propose a translate-and-refine approach to this problem where images are only used by a second stage decoder. This approach is trained jointly to generate a good first draft translation and to improve over this draft by (i) making better use of the target language textual context (both left and right-side contexts) and (ii) making use of visual context. This approach leads to the state of the art results. Additionally, we show that it has the ability to recover from erroneous or missing words in the source language.
We address the task of evaluating image description generation systems. We propose a novel image-aware metric for this task: VIFIDEL. It estimates the faithfulness of a generated caption with respect to the content of the actual image, based on the semantic similarity between labels of objects depicted in images and words in the description. The metric is also able to take into account the relative importance of objects mentioned in human reference descriptions during evaluation. Even if these human reference descriptions are not available, VIFIDEL can still reliably evaluate system descriptions. The metric achieves high correlation with human judgments on two well-known datasets and is competitive with metrics that depend on and rely exclusively on human references.
Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) requires grounding instructions, such as {``}turn right and stop at the door{''}, to routes in a visual environment. The actual grounding can connect language to the environment through multiple modalities, e.g. {``}stop at the door{''} might ground into visual objects, while {``}turn right{''} might rely only on the geometric structure of a route. We investigate where the natural language empirically grounds under two recent state-of-the-art VLN models. Surprisingly, we discover that visual features may actually hurt these models: models which only use route structure, ablating visual features, outperform their visual counterparts in unseen new environments on the benchmark Room-to-Room dataset. To better use all the available modalities, we propose to decompose the grounding procedure into a set of expert models with access to different modalities (including object detections) and ensemble them at prediction time, improving the performance of state-of-the-art models on the VLN task.
Human language is often multimodal, which comprehends a mixture of natural language, facial gestures, and acoustic behaviors. However, two major challenges in modeling such multimodal human language time-series data exist: 1) inherent data non-alignment due to variable sampling rates for the sequences from each modality; and 2) long-range dependencies between elements across modalities. In this paper, we introduce the Multimodal Transformer (MulT) to generically address the above issues in an end-to-end manner without explicitly aligning the data. At the heart of our model is the directional pairwise crossmodal attention, which attends to interactions between multimodal sequences across distinct time steps and latently adapt streams from one modality to another. Comprehensive experiments on both aligned and non-aligned multimodal time-series show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. In addition, empirical analysis suggests that correlated crossmodal signals are able to be captured by the proposed crossmodal attention mechanism in MulT.
Chest X-Ray (CXR) images are commonly used for clinical screening and diagnosis. Automatically writing reports for these images can considerably lighten the workload of radiologists for summarizing descriptive findings and conclusive impressions. The complex structures between and within sections of the reports pose a great challenge to the automatic report generation. Specifically, the section Impression is a diagnostic summarization over the section Findings; and the appearance of normality dominates each section over that of abnormality. Existing studies rarely explore and consider this fundamental structure information. In this work, we propose a novel framework which exploits the structure information between and within report sections for generating CXR imaging reports. First, we propose a two-stage strategy that explicitly models the relationship between Findings and Impression. Second, we design a novel co-operative multi-agent system that implicitly captures the imbalanced distribution between abnormality and normality. Experiments on two CXR report datasets show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of various evaluation metrics. Our results expose that the proposed approach is able to generate high-quality medical reports through integrating the structure information.
We introduce the first dataset for human edits of machine-generated visual stories and explore how these collected edits may be used for the visual story post-editing task. The dataset ,VIST-Edit, includes 14,905 human-edited versions of 2,981 machine-generated visual stories. The stories were generated by two state-of-the-art visual storytelling models, each aligned to 5 human-edited versions. We establish baselines for the task, showing how a relatively small set of human edits can be leveraged to boost the performance of large visual storytelling models. We also discuss the weak correlation between automatic evaluation scores and human ratings, motivating the need for new automatic metrics.
In this paper, we study abstractive summarization for open-domain videos. Unlike the traditional text news summarization, the goal is less to {``}compress{''} text information but rather to provide a fluent textual summary of information that has been collected and fused from different source modalities, in our case video and audio transcripts (or text). We show how a multi-source sequence-to-sequence model with hierarchical attention can integrate information from different modalities into a coherent output, compare various models trained with different modalities and present pilot experiments on the \textit{How2 corpus} of instructional videos. We also propose a new evaluation metric (Content F1) for abstractive summarization task that measures semantic adequacy rather than fluency of the summaries, which is covered by metrics like ROUGE and BLEU.
In this work, we propose a novel approach that predicts the relationships between various entities in an image in a weakly supervised manner by relying on image captions and object bounding box annotations as the sole source of supervision. Our proposed approach uses a top-down attention mechanism to align entities in captions to objects in the image, and then leverage the syntactic structure of the captions to align the relations. We use these alignments to train a relation classification network, thereby obtaining both grounded captions and dense relationships. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on the Visual Genome dataset by achieving a recall@50 of 15{\%} and recall@100 of 25{\%} on the relationships present in the image. We also show that the model successfully predicts relations that are not present in the corresponding captions.
Adversarial learning is a game-theoretic learning paradigm, which has achieved huge successes in the field of Computer Vision recently. Adversarial learning is also a general framework that enables a variety of learning models, including the popular Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Due to the discrete nature of language, designing adversarial learning models is still challenging for NLP problems. In this tutorial, we provide a gentle introduction to the foundation of deep adversarial learning, as well as some practical problem formulations and solutions in NLP. We describe recent advances in deep adversarial learning for NLP, with a special focus on generation, adversarial examples {\&} rules, and dialogue. We provide an overview of the research area, categorize different types of adversarial learning models, and discuss pros and cons, aiming at providing some practical perspectives on the future of adversarial learning for solving real-world NLP problems.
This tutorial discusses cutting-edge research on NLI, including recent advance on dataset development, cutting-edge deep learning models, and highlights from recent research on using NLI to understand capabilities and limits of deep learning models for language understanding and reasoning.
This tutorial is designed to help researchers answer the following sorts of questions: - Are people happier on the weekend? - What was 1861{'}s word of the year? - Are Democrats and Republicans more different than ever? - When did {``}gay{''} stop meaning {``}happy{''}? - Are gender stereotypes getting weaker, stronger, or just different? - Who is a linguistic leader? - How can we get internet users to be more polite and objective? Such questions are fundamental to the social sciences and humanities, and scholars in these disciplines are increasingly turning to computational techniques for answers. Meanwhile, the ACL community is increasingly engaged with data that varies across time, and with the social insights that can be offered by analyzing temporal patterns and trends. The purpose of this tutorial is to facilitate this convergence in two main ways: 1. By synthesizing recent computational techniques for handling and modeling temporal data, such as dynamic word embeddings, the tutorial will provide a starting point for future computational research. It will also identify useful tools for social scientists and digital humanities scholars. 2. The tutorial will provide an overview of techniques and datasets from the quantitative social sciences and the digital humanities, which are not well-known in the computational linguistics community. These techniques include vector autoregressive models, multiple comparisons corrections for hypothesis testing, and causal inference. Datasets include historical newspaper archives and corpora of contemporary political speech.
The classic supervised machine learning paradigm is based on learning in isolation, a single predictive model for a task using a single dataset. This approach requires a large number of training examples and performs best for well-defined and narrow tasks. Transfer learning refers to a set of methods that extend this approach by leveraging data from additional domains or tasks to train a model with better generalization properties. Over the last two years, the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP) has witnessed the emergence of several transfer learning methods and architectures which significantly improved upon the state-of-the-art on a wide range of NLP tasks. These improvements together with the wide availability and ease of integration of these methods are reminiscent of the factors that led to the success of pretrained word embeddings and ImageNet pretraining in computer vision, and indicate that these methods will likely become a common tool in the NLP landscape as well as an important research direction. We will present an overview of modern transfer learning methods in NLP, how models are pre-trained, what information the representations they learn capture, and review examples and case studies on how these models can be integrated and adapted in downstream NLP tasks.
The goal of this tutorial is to bring the fields of computational linguistics and computational cognitive science closer: we will introduce different stages of language acquisition and their parallel problems in NLP. As an example, one of the early challenges children face is mapping the meaning of word labels (such as {``}cat{''}) to their referents (the furry animal in the living room). Word learning is similar to the word alignment problem in machine translation. We explain the current computational models of language acquisition, their limitations, and how the insights from these models can be incorporated into NLP applications. Moreover, we discuss how we can take advantage of the cognitive science of language in computational linguistics: for example, by designing cognitively-motivated evaluations task or buildings language-learning inductive biases into our models.
Rapid growth in adoption of electronic health records (EHRs) has led to an unprecedented expansion in the availability of large longitudinal datasets. Large initiatives such as the Electronic Medical Records and Genomics (eMERGE) Network, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Network (PCORNet), and the Observational Health Data Science and Informatics (OHDSI) consortium, have been established and have reported successful applications of secondary use of EHRs in clinical research and practice. In these applications, natural language processing (NLP) technologies have played a crucial role as much of detailed patient information in EHRs is embedded in narrative clinical documents. Meanwhile, a number of clinical NLP systems, such as MedLEE, MetaMap/MetaMap Lite, cTAKES, and MedTagger have been developed and utilized to extract useful information from diverse types of clinical text, such as clinical notes, radiology reports, and pathology reports. Success stories in applying these tools have been reported widely. Despite the demonstrated success of NLP in the clinical domain, methodologies and tools developed for the clinical NLP are still underknown and underutilized by students and experts in the general NLP domain, mainly due to the limited exposure to EHR data. Through this tutorial, we would like to introduce NLP methodologies and tools developed in the clinical domain, and showcase the real-world NLP applications in clinical research and practice at Mayo Clinic (the No. 1 national hospital ranked by the U.S. News {\&} World Report) and the University of Minnesota (the No. 41 best global universities ranked by the U.S. News {\&} World Report). We will review NLP techniques in solving clinical problems and facilitating clinical research, the state-of-the art clinical NLP tools, and share collaboration experience with clinicians, as well as publicly available EHR data and medical resources, and finally conclude the tutorial with vast opportunities and challenges of clinical NLP. The tutorial will provide an overview of clinical backgrounds, and does not presume knowledge in medicine or health care. The goal of this tutorial is to encourage NLP researchers in the general domain (as opposed to the specialized clinical domain) to contribute to this burgeoning area. In this tutorial, we will first present an overview of clinical NLP. We will then dive into two subareas of clinical NLP in clinical research, including big data infrastructure for large-scale clinical NLP and advances of NLP in clinical research, and two subareas in clinical practice, including clinical information extraction and patient cohort retrieval using EHRs. Around 70{\%} of the tutorial will review clinical problems, cutting-edge methodologies, and real-world clinical NLP tools while another 30{\%} introduce use cases at Mayo Clinic and the University of Minnesota. Finally, we will conclude the tutorial with challenges and opportunities in this rapidly developing domain.
We present Abbreviation Explorer, a system that supports interactive exploration of abbreviations that are challenging for Unsupervised Abbreviation Disambiguation (UAD). Abbreviation Explorer helps to identify long-forms that are easily confused, and to pinpoint likely causes such as limitations of normalization, language switching, or inconsistent typing. It can also support determining which long-forms would benefit from additional input text for unsupervised abbreviation disambiguation. The system provides options for creating corrective rules that merge redundant long-forms with identical meaning. The identified rules can be easily applied to the already existing vector spaces used by UAD to improve disambiguation performance, while also avoiding the cost of retraining.
This demo paper describes ADIDA, a web-based system for automatic dialect identification for Arabic text. The system distinguishes among the dialects of 25 Arab cities (from Rabat to Muscat) in addition to Modern Standard Arabic. The results are presented with either a point map or a heat map visualizing the automatic identification probabilities over a geographical map of the Arab World.
Many of the most pressing current research problems (e.g., public health, food security, or climate change) require multi-disciplinary collaborations. In order to facilitate this process, we propose a system that incorporates multi-domain extractions of causal interactions into a single searchable knowledge graph. Our system enables users to search iteratively over direct and indirect connections in this knowledge graph, and collaboratively build causal models in real time. To enable the aggregation of causal information from multiple languages, we extend an open-domain machine reader to Portuguese. The new Portuguese reader extracts over 600 thousand causal statements from 120 thousand Portuguese publications with a precision of 62{\%}, which demonstrates the value of mining multilingual scientific information.
Nowadays, we are surrounded by more and more online news articles. Tens or hundreds of news articles need to be read if we wish to explore a hot news event or topic. So it is of vital importance to automatically synthesize a batch of news articles related to the event or topic into a new synthesis article (or overview article) for reader{'}s convenience. It is so challenging to make news synthesis fully automatic that there is no successful solution by now. In this paper, we put forward a novel Interactive News Synthesis system (i.e. INS), which can help generate news overview articles automatically or by interacting with users. More importantly, INS can serve as a tool for editors to help them finish their jobs. In our experiments, INS performs well on both topic representation and synthesis article generation. A user study also demonstrates the usefulness and users{'} satisfaction with the INS tool. A demo video is available at \url{https://youtu.be/7ItteKW3GEk}.
We present a method for learning bilingual word embeddings in order to support second language (L2) learners in finding recurring phrases and example sentences that match mixed-code queries (e.g., {``}接 受 sentence{''}) composed of words in both target language and native language (L1). In our approach, mixed-code queries are transformed into target language queries aimed at maximizing the probability of retrieving relevant target language phrases and sentences. The method involves converting a given parallel corpus into mixed-code data, generating word embeddings from mixed-code data, and expanding queries in target languages based on bilingual word embeddings. We present a prototype search engine, x.Linggle, that applies the method to a linguistic search engine for a parallel corpus. Preliminary evaluation on a list of common word-translation shows that the method performs reasonablly well.
Evaluating translation models is a trade-off between effort and detail. On the one end of the spectrum there are automatic count-based methods such as BLEU, on the other end linguistic evaluations by humans, which arguably are more informative but also require a disproportionately high effort. To narrow the spectrum, we propose a general approach on how to automatically expose systematic differences between human and machine translations to human experts. Inspired by adversarial settings, we train a neural text classifier to distinguish human from machine translations. A classifier that performs and generalizes well after training should recognize systematic differences between the two classes, which we uncover with neural explainability methods. Our proof-of-concept implementation, DiaMaT, is open source. Applied to a dataset translated by a state-of-the-art neural Transformer model, DiaMaT achieves a classification accuracy of 75{\%} and exposes meaningful differences between humans and the Transformer, amidst the current discussion about human parity.
In this paper, we describe compare-mt, a tool for holistic analysis and comparison of the results of systems for language generation tasks such as machine translation. The main goal of the tool is to give the user a high-level and coherent view of the salient differences between systems that can then be used to guide further analysis or system improvement. It implements a number of tools to do so, such as analysis of accuracy of generation of particular types of words, bucketed histograms of sentence accuracies or counts based on salient characteristics, and extraction of characteristic n-grams for each system. It also has a number of advanced features such as use of linguistic labels, source side data, or comparison of log likelihoods for probabilistic models, and also aims to be easily extensible by users to new types of analysis. compare-mt is a pure-Python open source package, that has already proven useful to generate analyses that have been used in our published papers. Demo Video: https://youtu.be/NyJEQT7t2CA
Building causal models of complicated phenomena such as food insecurity is currently a slow and labor-intensive manual process. In this paper, we introduce an approach that builds executable probabilistic models from raw, free text. The proposed approach is implemented through three systems: Eidos, INDRA, and Delphi. Eidos is an open-domain machine reading system designed to extract causal relations from natural language. It is rule-based, allowing for rapid domain transfer, customizability, and interpretability. INDRA aggregates multiple sources of causal information and performs assembly to create a coherent knowledge base and assess its reliability. This assembled knowledge serves as the starting point for modeling. Delphi is a modeling framework that assembles quantified causal fragments and their contexts into executable probabilistic models that respect the semantics of the original text, and can be used to support decision making.
fairseq is an open-source sequence modeling toolkit that allows researchers and developers to train custom models for translation, summarization, language modeling, and other text generation tasks. The toolkit is based on PyTorch and supports distributed training across multiple GPUs and machines. We also support fast mixed-precision training and inference on modern GPUs. A demo video can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtgDdWtHvto
We present FLAIR, an NLP framework designed to facilitate training and distribution of state-of-the-art sequence labeling, text classification and language models. The core idea of the framework is to present a simple, unified interface for conceptually very different types of word and document embeddings. This effectively hides all embedding-specific engineering complexity and allows researchers to {``}mix and match{''} various embeddings with little effort. The framework also implements standard model training and hyperparameter selection routines, as well as a data fetching module that can download publicly available NLP datasets and convert them into data structures for quick set up of experiments. Finally, FLAIR also ships with a {``}model zoo{''} of pre-trained models to allow researchers to use state-of-the-art NLP models in their applications. This paper gives an overview of the framework and its functionality. The framework is available on GitHub at https://github.com/zalandoresearch/flair .
Open-domain dialog systems (i.e. chatbots) are difficult to evaluate. The current best practice for analyzing and comparing these dialog systems is the use of human judgments. However, the lack of standardization in evaluation procedures, and the fact that model parameters and code are rarely published hinder systematic human evaluation experiments. We introduce a unified framework for human evaluation of chatbots that augments existing tools and provides a web-based hub for researchers to share and compare their dialog systems. Researchers can submit their trained models to the ChatEval web interface and obtain comparisons with baselines and prior work. The evaluation code is open-source to ensure standardization and transparency. In addition, we introduce open-source baseline models and evaluation datasets. ChatEval can be found at https://chateval.org.
Neural abstractive text summarization (NATS) has received a lot of attention in the past few years from both industry and academia. In this paper, we introduce an open-source toolkit, namely LeafNATS, for training and evaluation of different sequence-to-sequence based models for the NATS task, and for deploying the pre-trained models to real-world applications. The toolkit is modularized and extensible in addition to maintaining competitive performance in the NATS task. A live news blogging system has also been implemented to demonstrate how these models can aid blog/news editors by providing them suggestions of headlines and summaries of their articles.
We demonstrate an end-to-end question answering system that integrates BERT with the open-source Anserini information retrieval toolkit. In contrast to most question answering and reading comprehension models today, which operate over small amounts of input text, our system integrates best practices from IR with a BERT-based reader to identify answers from a large corpus of Wikipedia articles in an end-to-end fashion. We report large improvements over previous results on a standard benchmark test collection, showing that fine-tuning pretrained BERT with SQuAD is sufficient to achieve high accuracy in identifying answer spans.
We present FAKTA which is a unified framework that integrates various components of a fact-checking process: document retrieval from media sources with various types of reliability, stance detection of documents with respect to given claims, evidence extraction, and linguistic analysis. FAKTA predicts the factuality of given claims and provides evidence at the document and sentence level to explain its predictions.
In this paper, we introduce iComposer, an interactive web-based songwriting system designed to assist human creators by greatly simplifying music production. iComposer automatically creates melodies to accompany any given text. It also enables users to generate a set of lyrics given arbitrary melodies. iComposer is based on three sequence-to-sequence models, which are used to predict melody, rhythm, and lyrics, respectively. Songs generated by iComposer are compared with human-composed and randomly-generated ones in a subjective test, the experimental results of which demonstrate the capability of the proposed system to write pleasing melodies and meaningful lyrics at a level similar to that of humans.
Story composition is a challenging problem for machines and even for humans. We present a neural narrative generation system that interacts with humans to generate stories. Our system has different levels of human interaction, which enables us to understand at what stage of story-writing human collaboration is most productive, both to improving story quality and human engagement in the writing process. We compare different varieties of interaction in story-writing, story-planning, and diversity controls under time constraints, and show that increased types of human collaboration at both planning and writing stages results in a 10-50{\%} improvement in story quality as compared to less interactive baselines. We also show an accompanying increase in user engagement and satisfaction with stories as compared to our own less interactive systems and to previous turn-taking approaches to interaction. Finally, we find that humans tasked with collaboratively improving a particular characteristic of a story are in fact able to do so, which has implications for future uses of human-in-the-loop systems.
Expert finding is the task of ranking persons for a predefined topic or search query. Finding experts for a specified area is an important task and has attracted much attention in the information retrieval community. Most approaches for this task are evaluated in a supervised fashion, which depend on predefined topics of interest as well as gold standard expert rankings. Famous representatives of such datasets are enriched versions of DBLP provided by the ArnetMiner projet or the W3C Corpus of TREC. However, manually ranking experts can be considered highly subjective and detailed rankings are hardly distinguishable. Evaluating these datasets does not necessarily guarantee a good or bad performance of the system. Particularly for dynamic systems, where topics are not predefined but formulated as a search query, we believe a more informative approach is to perform user studies for directly comparing different methods in the same view. In order to accomplish this in a user-friendly way, we present the LT Expert Finder web-application, which is equipped with various query-based expert finding methods that can be easily extended, a detailed expert profile view, detailed evidence in form of relevant documents and statistics, and an evaluation component that allows the qualitative comparison between different rankings.
We present SkillBot that takes the first step to enable end users to teach new skills in personal assistants (PA). Unlike existing PA products that need software developers to build new skills via IDE tools, an end user can use SkillBot to build new skills just by naturally demonstrating the task on device screen. SkillBot automatically develops a natural language understanding (NLU) engine and implements the action without the need of coding. On both benchmark and in-house datasets, we validate the competitive performance of SkillBot automatically built NLU. We also observe that it only takes a few minutes for an end user to build a new skill using SkillBot.
This paper demonstrates a state-of-the-art end-to-end multilingual (English, Russian, and Ukrainian) knowledge extraction system that can perform entity discovery and linking, relation extraction, event extraction, and coreference. It extracts and aggregates knowledge elements across multiple languages and documents as well as provides visualizations of the results along three dimensions: temporal (as displayed in an event timeline), spatial (as displayed in an event heatmap), and relational (as displayed in entity-relation networks). For our system to further support users{'} analyses of causal sequences of events in complex situations, we also integrate a wide range of human moral value measures, independently derived from region-based survey, into the event heatmap. This system is publicly available as a docker container and a live demo.
Legal litigation planning can benefit from statistics collected from past decisions made by judges. Information on the typical duration for a submitted motion, for example, can give valuable clues for developing a successful strategy. Such information is encoded in semi-structured documents called dockets. In order to extract and aggregate this information, we deployed various information extraction and machine learning techniques. The aggregated data can be queried in real time within the Westlaw Edge search engine. In addition to a keyword search for judges, lawyers, law firms, parties and courts, we also implemented a question answering interface that offers targeted questions in order to get to the respective answers quicker.
In this paper, we introduce a morphologically-aware electronic dictionary for St. Lawrence Island Yupik, an endangered language of the Bering Strait region. Implemented using HTML, Javascript, and CSS, the dictionary is set in an uncluttered interface and permits users to search in Yupik or in English for Yupik root words and Yupik derivational suffixes. For each matching result, our electronic dictionary presents the user with the corresponding entry from the Badten (2008) Yupik-English paper dictionary. Because Yupik is a polysynthetic language, handling of multimorphemic word forms is critical. If a user searches for an inflected Yupik word form, we perform a morphological analysis and return entries for the root word and for any derivational suffixes present in the word. This electronic dictionary should serve not only as a valuable resource for all students and speakers of Yupik, but also for field linguists working towards documentation and conservation of the language.
We present a web-based system that facilitates the exploration of complex morphological patterns found in morphologically very rich languages. The need for better understanding of such patterns is urgent for linguistics and important for cross-linguistically applicable natural language processing. In this paper we give an overview of the system architecture and describe a sample case study on Abui [abz], a Trans-New Guinea language spoken in Indonesia.
This paper presents a research platform that supports spoken dialogue interaction with multiple robots. The demonstration showcases our crafted MultiBot testing scenario in which users can verbally issue search, navigate, and follow instructions to two robotic teammates: a simulated ground robot and an aerial robot. This flexible language and robotic platform takes advantage of existing tools for speech recognition and dialogue management that are compatible with new domains, and implements an inter-agent communication protocol (tactical behavior specification), where verbal instructions are encoded for tasks assigned to the appropriate robot.
In this paper we introduce Chat-crowd, an interactive environment for visual layout composition via conversational interactions. Chat-crowd supports multiple agents with two conversational roles: agents who play the role of a designer are in charge of placing objects in an editable canvas according to instructions or commands issued by agents with a director role. The system can be integrated with crowdsourcing platforms for both synchronous and asynchronous data collection and is equipped with comprehensive quality controls on the performance of both types of agents. We expect that this system will be useful to build multimodal goal-oriented dialog tasks that require spatial and geometric reasoning.
It has become commonplace for people to share their opinions about all kinds of products by posting reviews online. It has also become commonplace for potential customers to do research about the quality and limitations of these products by posting questions online. We test the extent to which reviews are useful in question-answering by combining two Amazon datasets and focusing our attention on yes/no questions. A manual analysis of 400 cases reveals that the reviews directly contain the answer to the question just over a third of the time. Preliminary reading comprehension experiments with this dataset prove inconclusive, with accuracy in the range 50-66{\%}.
Many text corpora exhibit socially problematic biases, which can be propagated or amplified in the models trained on such data. For example, doctor cooccurs more frequently with male pronouns than female pronouns. In this study we (i) propose a metric to measure gender bias; (ii) measure bias in a text corpus and the text generated from a recurrent neural network language model trained on the text corpus; (iii) propose a regularization loss term for the language model that minimizes the projection of encoder-trained embeddings onto an embedding subspace that encodes gender; (iv) finally, evaluate efficacy of our proposed method on reducing gender bias. We find this regularization method to be effective in reducing gender bias up to an optimal weight assigned to the loss term, beyond which the model becomes unstable as the perplexity increases. We replicate this study on three training corpora{---}Penn Treebank, WikiText-2, and CNN/Daily Mail{---}resulting in similar conclusions.
It has been established that the performance of speech recognition systems depends on multiple factors including the lexical content, speaker identity and dialect. Here we use three English datasets of acted emotion to demonstrate that emotional content also impacts the performance of commercial systems. On two of the corpora, emotion is a bigger contributor to recognition errors than speaker identity and on two, neutral speech is recognized considerably better than emotional speech. We further evaluate the commercial systems on spontaneous interactions that contain portions of emotional speech. We propose and validate on the acted datasets, a method that allows us to evaluate the overall impact of emotion on recognition even when manual transcripts are not available. Using this method, we show that emotion in natural spontaneous dialogue is a less prominent but still significant factor in recognition accuracy.
When developing topic classifiers for real-world applications, we begin by defining a set of meaningful topic labels. Ideally, an intelligent classifier can understand these labels right away and start classifying documents. Indeed, a human can confidently tell if an article is about science, politics, sports, or none of the above, after knowing just the class labels. We study the problem of training an initial topic classifier using only class labels. We investigate existing techniques for solving this problem and propose a simple but effective approach. Experiments on a variety of topic classification data sets show that learning from class labels can save significant initial labeling effort, essentially providing a {''}free{''} warm start to the topic classifier.
In this paper, we address the problem of effectively self-training neural networks in a low-resource setting. Self-training is frequently used to automatically increase the amount of training data. However, in a low-resource scenario, it is less effective due to unreliable annotations created using self-labeling of unlabeled data. We propose to combine self-training with noise handling on the self-labeled data. Directly estimating noise on the combined clean training set and self-labeled data can lead to corruption of the clean data and hence, performs worse. Thus, we propose the Clean and Noisy Label Neural Network which trains on clean and noisy self-labeled data simultaneously by explicitly modelling clean and noisy labels separately. In our experiments on Chunking and NER, this approach performs more robustly than the baselines. Complementary to this explicit approach, noise can also be handled implicitly with the help of an auxiliary learning task. To such a complementary approach, our method is more beneficial than other baseline methods and together provides the best performance overall.
Detecting opinion expression is a potential and essential task in opinion mining that can be extended to advanced tasks. In this paper, we considered opinion expression detection as a sequence labeling task and exploited different deep contextualized embedders into the state-of-the-art architecture, composed of bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) and conditional random field (CRF). Our experimental results show that using different word embeddings can cause contrasting results, and the model can achieve remarkable scores with deep contextualized embeddings. Especially, using BERT embedder can significantly exceed using ELMo embedder.
This paper focuses on a traditional relation extraction task in the context of limited annotated data and a narrow knowledge domain. We explore this task with a clinical corpus consisting of 200 breast cancer follow-up treatment letters in which 16 distinct types of relations are annotated. We experiment with an approach to extracting typed relations called window-bounded co-occurrence (WBC), which uses an adjustable context window around entity mentions of a relevant type, and compare its performance with a more typical intra-sentential co-occurrence baseline. We further introduce a new bag-of-concepts (BoC) approach to feature engineering based on the state-of-the-art word embeddings and word synonyms. We demonstrate the competitiveness of BoC by comparing with methods of higher complexity, and explore its effectiveness on this small dataset.
GANs have been shown to perform exceedingly well on tasks pertaining to image generation and style transfer. In the field of language modelling, word embeddings such as GLoVe and word2vec are state-of-the-art methods for applying neural network models on textual data. Attempts have been made to utilize GANs with word embeddings for text generation. This study presents an approach to text generation using Skip-Thought sentence embeddings with GANs based on gradient penalty functions and f-measures. The proposed architecture aims to reproduce writing style in the generated text by modelling the way of expression at a sentence level across all the works of an author. Extensive experiments were run in different embedding settings on a variety of tasks including conditional text generation and language generation. The model outperforms baseline text generation networks across several automated evaluation metrics like BLEU-n, METEOR and ROUGE. Further, wide applicability and effectiveness in real life tasks are demonstrated through human judgement scores.
This paper presents a new approach to generating English text from Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR). In contrast to the neural and statistical MT approaches used in other AMR generation systems, this one is largely rule-based, supplemented only by a language model and simple statistical linearization models, allowing for more control over the output. We also address the difficulties of automatically evaluating AMR generation systems and the problems with BLEU for this task. We compare automatic metrics to human evaluations and show that while METEOR and TER arguably reflect human judgments better than BLEU, further research into suitable evaluation metrics is needed.
Semantics and pragmatics are two complimentary and intertwined aspects of meaning in language. The former is concerned with the literal (context-free) meaning of words and sentences, the latter focuses on the intended meaning, one that is context-dependent. While NLP research has focused in the past mostly on semantics, the goal of this thesis is to develop computational models that leverage this pragmatic knowledge in language that is crucial to performing many NLP tasks correctly. In this proposal, we begin by reviewing the current progress in this thesis, namely, on the tasks of definiteness prediction and adverbial presupposition triggering. Then we discuss the proposed research for the remainder of the thesis which builds on this progress towards the goal of building better and more pragmatically-aware natural language generation and understanding systems.
Event Detection has been one of the research areas in Text Mining that has attracted attention during this decade due to the widespread availability of social media data specifically twitter data. Twitter has become a major source for information about real-world events because of the use of hashtags and the small word limit of Twitter that ensures concise presentation of events. Previous works on event detection from tweets are either applicable to detect localized events or breaking news only or miss out on many important events. This paper presents the problems associated with event detection from tweets and a tweet-segmentation based system for event detection called SEDTWik, an extension to a previous work, that is able to detect newsworthy events occurring at different locations of the world from a wide range of categories. The main idea is to split each tweet and hash-tag into segments, extract bursty segments, cluster them, and summarize them. We evaluated our results on the well-known Events2012 corpus and achieved state-of-the-art results. Keywords: Event detection, Twitter, Social Media, Microblogging, Tweet segmentation, Text Mining, Wikipedia, Hashtag.
Multimodal machine translation is an attractive application of neural machine translation (NMT). It helps computers to deeply understand visual objects and their relations with natural languages. However, multimodal NMT systems suffer from a shortage of available training data, resulting in poor performance for translating rare words. In NMT, pretrained word embeddings have been shown to improve NMT of low-resource domains, and a search-based approach is proposed to address the rare word problem. In this study, we effectively combine these two approaches in the context of multimodal NMT and explore how we can take full advantage of pretrained word embeddings to better translate rare words. We report overall performance improvements of 1.24 METEOR and 2.49 BLEU and achieve an improvement of 7.67 F-score for rare word translation.
Automated extraction methods are widely available for vowels, but automated methods for coding rhoticity have lagged far behind. R-fulness versus r-lessness (in words like park, store, etc.) is a classic and frequently cited variable, but it is still commonly coded by human analysts rather than automated methods. Human-coding requires extensive resources and lacks replicability, making it difficult to compare large datasets across research groups. Can reliable automated methods be developed to aid in coding rhoticity? In this study, we use Neural Networks/Deep Learning, training our model on 208 Boston-area speakers.
One of the main challenges in Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) is dealing with {`}open-vocabulary{'} slots. Recently, SLU models based on neural network were proposed, but it is still difficult to recognize the slots of unknown words or {`}open-vocabulary{'} slots because of the high cost of creating a manually tagged SLU dataset. This paper proposes data noising, which reflects the characteristics of the {`}open-vocabulary{'} slots, for data augmentation. We applied it to an attention based bi-directional recurrent neural network (Liu and Lane, 2016) and experimented with three datasets: Airline Travel Information System (ATIS), Snips, and MIT-Restaurant. We achieved performance improvements of up to 0.57{\%} and 3.25 in intent prediction (accuracy) and slot filling (f1-score), respectively. Our method is advantageous because it does not require additional memory and it can be applied simultaneously with the training process of the model.
This study examines the role of three influential theories of language processing, \textit{viz.}, Surprisal Theory, Uniform Information Density (UID) hypothesis and Dependency Locality Theory (DLT), in predicting disfluencies in speech production. To this end, we incorporate features based on lexical surprisal, word duration and DLT integration and storage costs into logistic regression classifiers aimed to predict disfluencies in the Switchboard corpus of English conversational speech. We find that disfluencies occur in the face of upcoming difficulties and speakers tend to handle this by lessening cognitive load before disfluencies occur. Further, we see that reparandums behave differently from disfluent fillers possibly due to the lessening of the cognitive load also happening in the word choice of the reparandum, i.e., in the disfluency itself. While the UID hypothesis does not seem to play a significant role in disfluency prediction, lexical surprisal and DLT costs do give promising results in explaining language production. Further, we also find that as a means to lessen cognitive load for upcoming difficulties speakers take more time on words preceding disfluencies, making duration a key element in understanding disfluencies.
In this paper we study how different ways of combining character and word-level representations affect the quality of both final word and sentence representations. We provide strong empirical evidence that modeling characters improves the learned representations at the word and sentence levels, and that doing so is particularly useful when representing less frequent words. We further show that a feature-wise sigmoid gating mechanism is a robust method for creating representations that encode semantic similarity, as it performed reasonably well in several word similarity datasets. Finally, our findings suggest that properly capturing semantic similarity at the word level does not consistently yield improved performance in downstream sentence-level tasks.
Pregroup calculus has been used for the representation of free word order languages (Sanskrit and Hungarian), using a construction called precyclicity. However, restricted word order alternation has not been handled before. This paper aims at introducing and formally expressing three methods of representing word order alternation in the pregroup representation of any language. This paper describes the word order alternation patterns of Hindi, and creates a basic pregroup representation for the language. In doing so, the shortcoming of correct reductions for ungrammatical sentences due to the current apparatus is highlighted, and the aforementioned methods are invoked for a grammatically accurate representation of restricted word order alternation. The replicability of these methods is explained in the representation of adverbs and prepositional phrases in English.
The {\#}MeToo movement is an ongoing prevalent phenomenon on social media aiming to demonstrate the frequency and widespread of sexual harassment by providing a platform to speak narrate personal experiences of such harassment. The aggregation and analysis of such disclosures pave the way to development of technology-based prevention of sexual harassment. We contend that the lack of specificity in generic sentence classification models may not be the best way to tackle text subtleties that intrinsically prevail in a classification task as complex as identifying disclosures of sexual harassment. We propose the Disclosure Language Model, a three part ULMFiT architecture, consisting of a Language model, a Medium-Specific (Twitter) model and a Task-Specific classifier to tackle this problem and create a manually annotated real-world dataset to test our technique on this, to show that using a Discourse Language Model often yields better classification performance over (i) Generic deep learning based sentence classification models (ii) existing models that rely on handcrafted stylistic features. An extensive comparison with state-of-the-art generic and specific models along with a detailed error analysis presents the case for our proposed methodology.
Suicide is a leading cause of death among youth and the use of social media to detect suicidal ideation is an active line of research. While it has been established that these users share a common set of properties, the current state-of-the-art approaches utilize only text-based (stylistic and semantic) cues. We contend that the use of information from networks in the form of condensed social graph embeddings and author profiling using features from historical data can be combined with an existing set of features to improve the performance. To that end, we experiment on a manually annotated dataset of tweets created using a three-phase strategy and propose SNAP-BATNET, a deep learning based model to extract text-based features and a novel Feature Stacking approach to combine other community-based information such as historical author profiling and graph embeddings that outperform the current state-of-the-art. We conduct a comprehensive quantitative analysis with baselines, both generic and specific, that presents the case for SNAP-BATNET, along with an error analysis that highlights the limitations and challenges faced paving the way to the future of AI-based suicide ideation detection.
Input method editor (IME) converts sequential alphabet key inputs to words in a target language. It is an indispensable service for billions of Asian users. Although the neural-based language model is extensively studied and shows promising results in sequence-to-sequence tasks, applying a neural-based language model to IME was not considered feasible due to high latency when converting words on user devices. In this work, we articulate the bottleneck of neural IME decoding to be the heavy softmax computation over a large vocabulary. We propose an approach that incrementally builds a subset vocabulary from the word lattice. Our approach always computes the probability with a selected subset vocabulary. When the selected vocabulary is updated, the stale probabilities in previous steps are fixed by recomputing the missing logits. The experiments on Japanese IME benchmark shows an over 50x speedup for the softmax computations comparing to the baseline, reaching real-time speed even on commodity CPU without losing conversion accuracy. The approach is potentially applicable to other incremental sequence-to-sequence decoding tasks such as real-time continuous speech recognition.
In this paper, we introduce an approach for leveraging available data across multiple locales sharing the same language to 1) improve domain classification model accuracy in Spoken Language Understanding and user experience even if new locales do not have sufficient data and 2) reduce the cost of scaling the domain classifier to a large number of locales. We propose a locale-agnostic universal domain classification model based on selective multi-task learning that learns a joint representation of an utterance over locales with different sets of domains and allows locales to share knowledge selectively depending on the domains. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on domain classification task in the scenario of multiple locales with imbalanced data and disparate domain sets. The proposed approach outperforms other baselines models especially when classifying locale-specific domains and also low-resourced domains.
Executable semantic parsing is the task of converting natural language utterances into logical forms that can be directly used as queries to get a response. We build a transfer learning framework for executable semantic parsing. We show that the framework is effective for Question Answering (Q{\&}A) as well as for Spoken Language Understanding (SLU). We further investigate the case where a parser on a new domain can be learned by exploiting data on other domains, either via multi-task learning between the target domain and an auxiliary domain or via pre-training on the auxiliary domain and fine-tuning on the target domain. With either flavor of transfer learning, we are able to improve performance on most domains; we experiment with public data sets such as Overnight and NLmaps as well as with commercial SLU data. The experiments carried out on data sets that are different in nature show how executable semantic parsing can unify different areas of NLP such as Q{\&}A and SLU.
Data for human-human spoken dialogues for research and development are currently very limited in quantity, variety, and sources; such data are even scarcer in healthcare. In this work, we investigate fast prototyping of a dialogue comprehension system by leveraging on minimal nurse-to-patient conversations. We propose a framework inspired by nurse-initiated clinical symptom monitoring conversations to construct a simulated human-human dialogue dataset, embodying linguistic characteristics of spoken interactions like thinking aloud, self-contradiction, and topic drift. We then adopt an established bidirectional attention pointer network on this simulated dataset, achieving more than 80{\%} F1 score on a held-out test set from real-world nurse-to-patient conversations. The ability to automatically comprehend conversations in the healthcare domain by exploiting only limited data has implications for improving clinical workflows through red flag symptom detection and triaging capabilities. We demonstrate the feasibility for efficient and effective extraction, retrieval and comprehension of symptom checking information discussed in multi-turn human-human spoken conversations.
Visually rich documents (VRDs) are ubiquitous in daily business and life. Examples are purchase receipts, insurance policy documents, custom declaration forms and so on. In VRDs, visual and layout information is critical for document understanding, and texts in such documents cannot be serialized into the one-dimensional sequence without losing information. Classic information extraction models such as BiLSTM-CRF typically operate on text sequences and do not incorporate visual features. In this paper, we introduce a graph convolution based model to combine textual and visual information presented in VRDs. Graph embeddings are trained to summarize the context of a text segment in the document, and further combined with text embeddings for entity extraction. Extensive experiments have been conducted to show that our method outperforms BiLSTM-CRF baselines by significant margins, on two real-world datasets. Additionally, ablation studies are also performed to evaluate the effectiveness of each component of our model.
We consider the problem of diversifying automated reply suggestions for a commercial instant-messaging (IM) system (Skype). Our conversation model is a standard matching based information retrieval architecture, which consists of two parallel encoders to project messages and replies into a common feature representation. During inference, we select replies from a fixed response set using nearest neighbors in the feature space. To diversify responses, we formulate the model as a generative latent variable model with Conditional Variational Auto-Encoder (M-CVAE). We propose a constrained-sampling approach to make the variational inference in M-CVAE efficient for our production system. In offline experiments, M-CVAE consistently increased diversity by ∼30−40{\%} without significant impact on relevance. This translated to a ∼5{\%} gain in click-rate in our online production system.
End-to-end neural models for goal-oriented conversational systems have become an increasingly active area of research, though results in real-world settings are few. We present real-world results for two issue types in the customer service domain. We train models on historical chat transcripts and test on live contacts using a human-in-the-loop research platform. Additionally, we incorporate customer profile features to assess their impact on model performance. We experiment with two approaches for response generation: (1) sequence-to-sequence generation and (2) template ranking. To test our models, a customer service agent handles live contacts and at each turn we present the top four model responses and allow the agent to select (and optionally edit) one of the suggestions or to type their own. We present results for turn acceptance rate, response coverage, and edit rate based on approximately 600 contacts, as well as qualitative analysis on patterns of turn rejection and edit behavior. Top-4 turn acceptance rate across all models ranges from 63{\%}-80{\%}. Our results suggest that these models are promising for an agent-support application.
Consumers dissatisfied with the normal dispute resolution process provided by an e-commerce company{'}s customer service agents have the option of escalating their complaints by filing grievances with a government authority. This paper tackles the challenge of monitoring ongoing text chat dialogues to identify cases where the customer expresses such an intent, providing triage and prioritization for a separate pool of specialized agents specially trained to handle more complex situations. We describe a hybrid model that tackles this challenge by integrating recurrent neural networks with manually-engineered features. Experiments show that both components are complementary and contribute to overall recall, outperforming competitive baselines. A trial online deployment of our model demonstrates its business value in improving customer service.
Nowadays, more and more customers browse and purchase products in favor of using mobile E-Commerce Apps such as Taobao and Amazon. Since merchants are usually inclined to describe redundant and over-informative product titles to attract attentions from customers, it is important to concisely display short product titles on limited screen of mobile phones. To address this discrepancy, previous studies mainly consider textual information of long product titles and lacks of human-like view during training and evaluation process. In this paper, we propose a Multi-Modal Generative Adversarial Network (MM-GAN) for short product title generation in E-Commerce, which innovatively incorporates image information and attribute tags from product, as well as textual information from original long titles. MM-GAN poses short title generation as a reinforcement learning process, where the generated titles are evaluated by the discriminator in a human-like view. Extensive experiments on a large-scale E-Commerce dataset demonstrate that our algorithm outperforms other state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, we deploy our model into a real-world online E-Commerce environment and effectively boost the performance of click through rate and click conversion rate by 1.66{\%} and 1.87{\%}, respectively.
There have been many studies on neural headline generation models trained with a lot of (article, headline) pairs. However, there are few situations for putting such models into practical use in the real world since news articles typically already have corresponding headlines. In this paper, we describe a practical use case of neural headline generation in a news aggregator, where dozens of professional editors constantly select important news articles and manually create their headlines, which are much shorter than the original headlines. Specifically, we show how to deploy our model to an editing support tool and report the results of comparing the behavior of the editors before and after the release.
We explore the use of lexicons or gazettes in neural models for slot tagging in spoken language understanding. We develop models that encode lexicon information as neural features for use in a Long-short term memory neural network. Experiments are performed on data from 4 domains from an intelligent assistant under conditions that often occur in an industry setting, where there may be: 1) large amounts of training data, 2) limited amounts of training data for new domains, and 3) cross domain training. Results show that the use of neural lexicon information leads to a significant improvement in slot tagging, with improvements in the F-score of up to 12{\%}. Our findings have implications for how lexicons can be used to improve the performance of neural slot tagging models.
We explore active learning (AL) for improving the accuracy of new domains in a natural language understanding (NLU) system. We propose an algorithm called Majority-CRF that uses an ensemble of classification models to guide the selection of relevant utterances, as well as a sequence labeling model to help prioritize informative examples. Experiments with three domains show that Majority-CRF achieves 6.6{\%}-9{\%} relative error rate reduction compared to random sampling with the same annotation budget, and statistically significant improvements compared to other AL approaches. Additionally, case studies with human-in-the-loop AL on six new domains show 4.6{\%}-9{\%} improvement on an existing NLU system.
We present a novel approach to dialogue state tracking and referring expression resolution tasks. Successful contextual understanding of multi-turn spoken dialogues requires resolving referring expressions across turns and tracking the entities relevant to the conversation across turns. Tracking conversational state is particularly challenging in a multi-domain scenario when there exist multiple spoken language understanding (SLU) sub-systems, and each SLU sub-system operates on its domain-specific meaning representation. While previous approaches have addressed the disparate schema issue by learning candidate transformations of the meaning representation, in this paper, we instead model the reference resolution as a dialogue context-aware user query reformulation task {--} the dialog state is serialized to a sequence of natural language tokens representing the conversation. We develop our model for query reformulation using a pointer-generator network and a novel multi-task learning setup. In our experiments, we show a significant improvement in absolute F1 on an internal as well as a, soon to be released, public benchmark respectively.
There has been a significant investment in dialog systems (tools and runtime) for building conversational systems by major companies including Google, IBM, Microsoft, and Amazon. The question remains whether these tools are up to the task of building conversational, task-oriented dialog applications at the enterprise level. In our company, we are exploring and comparing several toolsets in an effort to determine their strengths and weaknesses in meeting our goals for dialog system development: accuracy, time to market, ease of replicating and extending applications, and efficiency and ease of use by developers. In this paper, we provide both quantitative and qualitative results in three main areas: natural language understanding, dialog, and text generation. While existing toolsets were all incomplete, we hope this paper will provide a roadmap of where they need to go to meet the goal of building effective dialog systems.
There are significant challenges involved in the design and implementation of a dialog-based tutoring system (DBT) ranging from domain engineering to natural language classification and eventually instantiating an adaptive, personalized dialog strategy. These issues are magnified when implementing such a system at scale and across domains. In this paper, we describe and reflect on the design, methods, decisions and assessments that led to the successful deployment of our AI driven DBT currently being used by several hundreds of college level students for practice and self-regulated study in diverse subjects like Sociology, Communications, and American Government.
In this paper, we investigate the challenges of using reinforcement learning agents for question-answering over knowledge graphs for real-world applications. We examine the performance metrics used by state-of-the-art systems and determine that they are inadequate for such settings. More specifically, they do not evaluate the systems correctly for situations when there is no answer available and thus agents optimized for these metrics are poor at modeling confidence. We introduce a simple new performance metric for evaluating question-answering agents that is more representative of practical usage conditions, and optimize for this metric by extending the binary reward structure used in prior work to a ternary reward structure which also rewards an agent for not answering a question rather than giving an incorrect answer. We show that this can drastically improve the precision of answered questions while only not answering a limited number of previously correctly answered questions. Employing a supervised learning strategy using depth-first-search paths to bootstrap the reinforcement learning algorithm further improves performance.
Software Requirement Specification documents provide natural language descriptions of the core functional requirements as a set of use-cases. Essentially, each use-case contains a set of actors and sequences of steps describing the interactions among them. Goals of use-case reviews and analyses include their correctness, completeness, detection of ambiguities, prototyping, verification, test case generation and traceability. Message Sequence Chart (MSC) have been proposed as a expressive, rigorous yet intuitive visual representation of use-cases. In this paper, we describe a linguistic knowledge-based approach to extract MSCs from use-cases. Compared to existing techniques, we extract richer constructs of the MSC notation such as timers, conditions and alt-boxes. We apply this tool to extract MSCs from several real-life software use-case descriptions and show that it performs better than the existing techniques. We also discuss the benefits and limitations of the extracted MSCs to meet the above goals.
A capable, automatic Question Answering (QA) system can provide more complete and accurate answers using a comprehensive knowledge base (KB). One important approach to constructing a comprehensive knowledge base is to extract information from Wikipedia infobox tables to populate an existing KB. Despite previous successes in the Infobox Extraction (IBE) problem (e.g., DBpedia), three major challenges remain: 1) Deterministic extraction patterns used in DBpedia are vulnerable to template changes; 2) Over-trusting Wikipedia anchor links can lead to entity disambiguation errors; 3) Heuristic-based extraction of unlinkable entities yields low precision, hurting both accuracy and completeness of the final KB. This paper presents a robust approach that tackles all three challenges. We build probabilistic models to predict relations between entity mentions directly from the infobox tables in HTML. The entity mentions are linked to identifiers in an existing KB if possible. The unlinkable ones are also parsed and preserved in the final output. Training data for both the relation extraction and the entity linking models are automatically generated using distant supervision. We demonstrate the empirical effectiveness of the proposed method in both precision and recall compared to a strong IBE baseline, DBpedia, with an absolute improvement of 41.3{\%} in average F1. We also show that our extraction makes the final KB significantly more complete, improving the completeness score of list-value relation types by 61.4{\%}.
In this paper we present a new method for intent recognition for complex dialog management in low resource situations. Complex dialog management is required because our target domain is real world mixed initiative food ordering between agents and their customers, where individual customer utterances may contain multiple intents and refer to food items with complex structure. For example, a customer might say {``}Can I get a deluxe burger with large fries and oh put extra mayo on the burger would you?{''} We approach this task as a multi-level sequence labeling problem, with the constraint of limited real training data. Both traditional methods like HMM, MEMM, or CRF and newer methods like DNN or BiLSTM use only homogeneous feature sets. Newer methods perform better but also require considerably more data. Previous research has done pseudo-data synthesis to obtain the required amounts of training data. We propose to use a k-NN learner with heterogeneous feature set. We used windowed word n-grams, POS tag n-grams and pre-trained word embeddings as features. For the experiments we perform a comparison between using pseudo-data and real world data. We also perform semi-supervised self-training to obtain additional labeled data, in order to better model real world scenarios. Instead of using massive pseudo-data, we show that with only less than 1{\%} of the data size, we can achieve better result than any of the methods above by annotating real world data. We achieve labeled bracketed F-scores of 75.46, 52.84 and 49.66 for the three levels of sequence labeling where each level has a longer word span than its previous level. Overall we achieve 60.71F. In comparison, two previous systems, MEMM and DNN-ELMO, achieved 52.32 and 45.25 respectively.
Tracking user reported bugs requires considerable engineering effort in going through many repetitive reports and assigning them to the correct teams. This paper proposes a neural architecture that can jointly (1) detect if two bug reports are duplicates, and (2) aggregate them into latent topics. Leveraging the assumption that learning the topic of a bug is a sub-task for detecting duplicates, we design a loss function that can jointly perform both tasks but needs supervision for only duplicate classification, achieving topic clustering in an unsupervised fashion. We use a two-step attention module that uses self-attention for topic clustering and conditional attention for duplicate detection. We study the characteristics of two types of real world datasets that have been marked for duplicate bugs by engineers and by non-technical annotators. The results demonstrate that our model not only can outperform state-of-the-art methods for duplicate classification on both cases, but can also learn meaningful latent clusters without additional supervision.
This paper addresses the issue of generalization for Semantic Parsing in an adversarial framework. Building models that are more robust to inter-document variability is crucial for the integration of Semantic Parsing technologies in real applications. The underlying question throughout this study is whether adversarial learning can be used to train models on a higher level of abstraction in order to increase their robustness to lexical and stylistic variations. We propose to perform Semantic Parsing with a domain classification adversarial task, covering various use-cases with or without explicit knowledge of the domain. The strategy is first evaluated on a French corpus of encyclopedic documents, annotated with FrameNet, in an information retrieval perspective. This corpus constitutes a new public benchmark, gathering documents from various thematic domains and various sources. We show that adversarial learning yields improved results when using explicit domain classification as the adversarial task. We also propose an unsupervised domain discovery approach that yields equivalent improvements. The latter is also evaluated on a PropBank Semantic Role Labeling task on the CoNLL-2005 benchmark and is shown to increase the model{'}s generalization capabilities on out-of-domain data.
Contract analysis can significantly ease the work for humans using AI techniques. This paper shows a problem of Element Tagging on Insurance Policy (ETIP). A novel Text-Of-Interest Convolutional Neural Network (TOI-CNN) is proposed for the ETIP solution. We introduce a TOI pooling layer to replace traditional pooling layer for processing the nested phrasal or clausal elements in insurance policies. The advantage of TOI pooling layer is that the nested elements from one sentence could share computation and context in the forward and backward passes. The computation of backpropagation through TOI pooling is also demonstrated in the paper. We have collected a large Chinese insurance contract dataset and labeled the critical elements of seven categories to test the performance of the proposed method. The results show the promising performance of our method in the ETIP problem.
This work explores cross-lingual transfer learning (TL) for named entity recognition, focusing on bootstrapping Japanese from English. A deep neural network model is adopted and the best combination of weights to transfer is extensively investigated. Moreover, a novel approach is presented that overcomes linguistic differences between this language pair by romanizing a portion of the Japanese input. Experiments are conducted on external datasets, as well as internal large-scale real-world ones. Gains with TL are achieved for all evaluated cases. Finally, the influence on TL of the target dataset size and of the target tagset distribution is further investigated.
Text normalization (TN) is an important step in conversational systems. It converts written text to its spoken form to facilitate speech recognition, natural language understanding and text-to-speech synthesis. Finite state transducers (FSTs) are commonly used to build grammars that handle text normalization. However, translating linguistic knowledge into grammars requires extensive effort. In this paper, we frame TN as a machine translation task and tackle it with sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models. Previous research focuses on normalizing a word (or phrase) with the help of limited word-level context, while our approach directly normalizes full sentences. We find subword models with additional linguistic features yield the best performance (with a word error rate of 0.17{\%}).
Named Entity Recognition (NER) has been mostly studied in the context of written text. Specifically, NER is an important step in de-identification (de-ID) of medical records, many of which are recorded conversations between a patient and a doctor. In such recordings, audio spans with personal information should be redacted, similar to the redaction of sensitive character spans in de-ID for written text. The application of NER in the context of audio de-identification has yet to be fully investigated. To this end, we define the task of audio de-ID, in which audio spans with entity mentions should be detected. We then present our pipeline for this task, which involves Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), NER on the transcript text, and text-to-audio alignment. Finally, we introduce a novel metric for audio de-ID and a new evaluation benchmark consisting of a large labeled segment of the Switchboard and Fisher audio datasets and detail our pipeline{'}s results on it.
Neural text-to-speech synthesis (NTTS) models have shown significant progress in generating high-quality speech, however they require a large quantity of training data. This makes creating models for multiple styles expensive and time-consuming. In this paper different styles of speech are analysed based on prosodic variations, from this a model is proposed to synthesise speech in the style of a newscaster, with just a few hours of supplementary data. We pose the problem of synthesising in a target style using limited data as that of creating a bi-style model that can synthesise both neutral-style and newscaster-style speech via a one-hot vector which factorises the two styles. We also propose conditioning the model on contextual word embeddings, and extensively evaluate it against neutral NTTS, and neutral concatenative-based synthesis. This model closes the gap in perceived style-appropriateness between natural recordings for newscaster-style of speech, and neutral speech synthesis by approximately two-thirds.
Neural approaches to Natural Language Generation (NLG) have been promising for goal-oriented dialogue. One of the challenges of productionizing these approaches, however, is the ability to control response quality, and ensure that generated responses are acceptable. We propose the use of a generate, filter, and rank framework, in which candidate responses are first filtered to eliminate unacceptable responses, and then ranked to select the best response. While acceptability includes grammatical correctness and semantic correctness, we focus only on grammaticality classification in this paper, and show that existing datasets for grammatical error correction don{'}t correctly capture the distribution of errors that data-driven generators are likely to make. We release a grammatical classification and semantic correctness classification dataset for the weather domain that consists of responses generated by 3 data-driven NLG systems. We then explore two supervised learning approaches (CNNs and GBDTs) for classifying grammaticality. Our experiments show that grammaticality classification is very sensitive to the distribution of errors in the data, and that these distributions vary significantly with both the source of the response as well as the domain. We show that it{'}s possible to achieve high precision with reasonable recall on our dataset.
The article dwell time (i.e., expected time that users spend on an article) is among the most important factors showing the article engagement. It is of great interest to predict the dwell time of an article before its release. This allows digital newspapers to make informed decisions and publish more engaging articles. In this paper, we propose a novel content-based approach based on a deep neural network architecture for predicting article dwell times. The proposed model extracts emotion, event and entity features from an article, learns interactions among them, and combines the interactions with the word-based features of the article to learn a model for predicting the dwell time. The experimental results on a real dataset from a major newspaper show that the proposed model outperforms other state-of-the-art baselines.
Previous research shows that eye-tracking data contains information about the lexical and syntactic properties of text, which can be used to improve natural language processing models. In this work, we leverage eye movement features from three corpora with recorded gaze information to augment a state-of-the-art neural model for named entity recognition (NER) with gaze embeddings. These corpora were manually annotated with named entity labels. Moreover, we show how gaze features, generalized on word type level, eliminate the need for recorded eye-tracking data at test time. The gaze-augmented models for NER using token-level and type-level features outperform the baselines. We present the benefits of eye-tracking features by evaluating the NER models on both individual datasets as well as in cross-domain settings.
Recent work has shown that LSTMs trained on a generic language modeling objective capture syntax-sensitive generalizations such as long-distance number agreement. We have however no mechanistic understanding of how they accomplish this remarkable feat. Some have conjectured it depends on heuristics that do not truly take hierarchical structure into account. We present here a detailed study of the inner mechanics of number tracking in LSTMs at the single neuron level. We discover that long-distance number information is largely managed by two {``}number units{''}. Importantly, the behaviour of these units is partially controlled by other units independently shown to track syntactic structure. We conclude that LSTMs are, to some extent, implementing genuinely syntactic processing mechanisms, paving the way to a more general understanding of grammatical encoding in LSTMs.
Self-training is a semi-supervised learning approach for utilizing unlabeled data to create better learners. The efficacy of self-training algorithms depends on their data sampling techniques. The majority of current sampling techniques are based on predetermined policies which may not effectively explore the data space or improve model generalizability. In this work, we tackle the above challenges by introducing a new data sampling technique based on spaced repetition that dynamically samples informative and diverse unlabeled instances with respect to individual learner and instance characteristics. The proposed model is specifically effective in the context of neural models which can suffer from overfitting and high-variance gradients when trained with small amount of labeled data. Our model outperforms current semi-supervised learning approaches developed for neural networks on publicly-available datasets.
We investigate the extent to which the behavior of neural network language models reflects incremental representations of syntactic state. To do so, we employ experimental methodologies which were originally developed in the field of psycholinguistics to study syntactic representation in the human mind. We examine neural network model behavior on sets of artificial sentences containing a variety of syntactically complex structures. These sentences not only test whether the networks have a representation of syntactic state, they also reveal the specific lexical cues that networks use to update these states. We test four models: two publicly available LSTM sequence models of English (Jozefowicz et al., 2016; Gulordava et al., 2018) trained on large datasets; an RNN Grammar (Dyer et al., 2016) trained on a small, parsed dataset; and an LSTM trained on the same small corpus as the RNNG. We find evidence for basic syntactic state representations in all models, but only the models trained on large datasets are sensitive to subtle lexical cues signaling changes in syntactic state.
Electroencephalography (EEG) recordings of brain activity taken while participants read or listen to language are widely used within the cognitive neuroscience and psycholinguistics communities as a tool to study language comprehension. Several time-locked stereotyped EEG responses to word-presentations {--} known collectively as event-related potentials (ERPs) {--} are thought to be markers for semantic or syntactic processes that take place during comprehension. However, the characterization of each individual ERP in terms of what features of a stream of language trigger the response remains controversial. Improving this characterization would make ERPs a more useful tool for studying language comprehension. We take a step towards better understanding the ERPs by finetuning a language model to predict them. This new approach to analysis shows for the first time that all of the ERPs are predictable from embeddings of a stream of language. Prior work has only found two of the ERPs to be predictable. In addition to this analysis, we examine which ERPs benefit from sharing parameters during joint training. We find that two pairs of ERPs previously identified in the literature as being related to each other benefit from joint training, while several other pairs of ERPs that benefit from joint training are suggestive of potential relationships. Extensions of this analysis that further examine what kinds of information in the model embeddings relate to each ERP have the potential to elucidate the processes involved in human language comprehension.
We present a simple approach to improve direct speech-to-text translation (ST) when the source language is low-resource: we pre-train the model on a high-resource automatic speech recognition (ASR) task, and then fine-tune its parameters for ST. We demonstrate that our approach is effective by pre-training on 300 hours of English ASR data to improve Spanish English ST from 10.8 to 20.2 BLEU when only 20 hours of Spanish-English ST training data are available. Through an ablation study, we find that the pre-trained encoder (acoustic model) accounts for most of the improvement, despite the fact that the shared language in these tasks is the target language text, not the source language audio. Applying this insight, we show that pre-training on ASR helps ST even when the ASR language differs from both source and target ST languages: pre-training on French ASR also improves Spanish-English ST. Finally, we show that the approach improves performance on a true low-resource task: pre-training on a combination of English ASR and French ASR improves Mboshi-French ST, where only 4 hours of data are available, from 3.5 to 7.1 BLEU.
In this paper, we deploy binary stochastic neural autoencoder networks as models of infant language learning in two typologically unrelated languages (Xitsonga and English). We show that the drive to model auditory percepts leads to latent clusters that partially align with theory-driven phonemic categories. We further evaluate the degree to which theory-driven phonological features are encoded in the latent bit patterns, finding that some (e.g. [+-approximant]), are well represented by the network in both languages, while others (e.g. [+-spread glottis]) are less so. Together, these findings suggest that many reliable cues to phonemic structure are immediately available to infants from bottom-up perceptual characteristics alone, but that these cues must eventually be supplemented by top-down lexical and phonotactic information to achieve adult-like phone discrimination. Our results also suggest differences in degree of perceptual availability between features, yielding testable predictions as to which features might depend more or less heavily on top-down cues during child language acquisition.
Disfluencies in spontaneous speech are known to be associated with prosodic disruptions. However, most algorithms for disfluency detection use only word transcripts. Integrating prosodic cues has proved difficult because of the many sources of variability affecting the acoustic correlates. This paper introduces a new approach to extracting acoustic-prosodic cues using text-based distributional prediction of acoustic cues to derive vector z-score features (innovations). We explore both early and late fusion techniques for integrating text and prosody, showing gains over a high-accuracy text-only model.
We report on adaptation of multilingual end-to-end speech recognition models trained on as many as 100 languages. Our findings shed light on the relative importance of similarity between the target and pretraining languages along the dimensions of phonetics, phonology, language family, geographical location, and orthography. In this context, experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of two additional pretraining objectives in encouraging language-independent encoder representations: a context-independent phoneme objective paired with a language-adversarial classification objective.
Simultaneous interpretation, the translation of speech from one language to another in real-time, is an inherently difficult and strenuous task. One of the greatest challenges faced by interpreters is the accurate translation of difficult terminology like proper names, numbers, or other entities. Intelligent computer-assisted interpreting (CAI) tools that could analyze the spoken word and detect terms likely to be untranslated by an interpreter could reduce translation error and improve interpreter performance. In this paper, we propose a task of predicting which terminology simultaneous interpreters will leave untranslated, and examine methods that perform this task using supervised sequence taggers. We describe a number of task-specific features explicitly designed to indicate when an interpreter may struggle with translating a word. Experimental results on a newly-annotated version of the NAIST Simultaneous Translation Corpus (Shimizu et al., 2014) indicate the promise of our proposed method.
We explore the problem of Audio Captioning: generating natural language description for any kind of audio in the wild, which has been surprisingly unexplored in previous research. We contribute a large-scale dataset of 46K audio clips with human-written text pairs collected via crowdsourcing on the AudioSet dataset. Our thorough empirical studies not only show that our collected captions are indeed faithful to audio inputs but also discover what forms of audio representation and captioning models are effective for the audio captioning. From extensive experiments, we also propose two novel components that help improve audio captioning performance: the top-down multi-scale encoder and aligned semantic attention.
We introduce, release, and analyze a new dataset, called Humicroedit, for research in computational humor. Our publicly available data consists of regular English news headlines paired with versions of the same headlines that contain simple replacement edits designed to make them funny. We carefully curated crowdsourced editors to create funny headlines and judges to score a to a total of 15,095 edited headlines, with five judges per headline. The simple edits, usually just a single word replacement, mean we can apply straightforward analysis techniques to determine what makes our edited headlines humorous. We show how the data support classic theories of humor, such as incongruity, superiority, and setup/punchline. Finally, we develop baseline classifiers that can predict whether or not an edited headline is funny, which is a first step toward automatically generating humorous headlines as an approach to creating topical humor.
We present an approach for generating clarification questions with the goal of eliciting new information that would make the given textual context more complete. We propose that modeling hypothetical answers (to clarification questions) as latent variables can guide our approach into generating more useful clarification questions. We develop a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) where the generator is a sequence-to-sequence model and the discriminator is a utility function that models the value of updating the context with the answer to the clarification question. We evaluate on two datasets, using both automatic metrics and human judgments of usefulness, specificity and relevance, showing that our approach outperforms both a retrieval-based model and ablations that exclude the utility model and the adversarial training.
Neural machine translation systems have become state-of-the-art approaches for Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) task. In this paper, we propose a copy-augmented architecture for the GEC task by copying the unchanged words from the source sentence to the target sentence. Since the GEC suffers from not having enough labeled training data to achieve high accuracy. We pre-train the copy-augmented architecture with a denoising auto-encoder using the unlabeled One Billion Benchmark and make comparisons between the fully pre-trained model and a partially pre-trained model. It is the first time copying words from the source context and fully pre-training a sequence to sequence model are experimented on the GEC task. Moreover, We add token-level and sentence-level multi-task learning for the GEC task. The evaluation results on the CoNLL-2014 test set show that our approach outperforms all recently published state-of-the-art results by a large margin.
We propose a topic-guided variational auto-encoder (TGVAE) model for text generation. Distinct from existing variational auto-encoder (VAE) based approaches, which assume a simple Gaussian prior for latent code, our model specifies the prior as a Gaussian mixture model (GMM) parametrized by a neural topic module. Each mixture component corresponds to a latent topic, which provides a guidance to generate sentences under the topic. The neural topic module and the VAE-based neural sequence module in our model are learned jointly. In particular, a sequence of invertible Householder transformations is applied to endow the approximate posterior of the latent code with high flexibility during the model inference. Experimental results show that our TGVAE outperforms its competitors on both unconditional and conditional text generation, which can also generate semantically-meaningful sentences with various topics.
Constituent parsing has been studied extensively in the last decades. Chomsky-Sch{\"u
Languages evolve and diverge over time. Their evolutionary history is often depicted in the shape of a phylogenetic tree. Assuming parsing models are representations of their languages grammars, their evolution should follow a structure similar to that of the phylogenetic tree. In this paper, drawing inspiration from multi-task learning, we make use of the phylogenetic tree to guide the learning of multi-lingual dependency parsers leveraging languages structural similarities. Experiments on data from the Universal Dependency project show that phylogenetic training is beneficial to low resourced languages and to well furnished languages families. As a side product of phylogenetic training, our model is able to perform zero-shot parsing of previously unseen languages.
We introduce a novel transition system for discontinuous constituency parsing. Instead of storing subtrees in a stack {--}i.e. a data structure with linear-time sequential access{--} the proposed system uses a set of parsing items, with constant-time random access. This change makes it possible to construct any discontinuous constituency tree in exactly $4n–2$ transitions for a sentence of length n. At each parsing step, the parser considers every item in the set to be combined with a focus item and to construct a new constituent in a bottom-up fashion. The parsing strategy is based on the assumption that most syntactic structures can be parsed incrementally and that the set {--}the memory of the parser{--} remains reasonably small on average. Moreover, we introduce a provably correct dynamic oracle for the new transition system, and present the first experiments in discontinuous constituency parsing using a dynamic oracle. Our parser obtains state-of-the-art results on three English and German discontinuous treebanks.
The performance of Part-of-Speech tagging varies significantly across the treebanks of the Universal Dependencies project. This work points out that these variations may result from divergences between the annotation of train and test sets. We show how the annotation variation principle, introduced by Dickinson and Meurers (2003) to automatically detect errors in gold standard, can be used to identify inconsistencies between annotations; we also evaluate their impact on prediction performance.
The main obstacle to incremental sentence processing arises from right-branching constituent structures, which are present in the majority of English sentences, as well as optional constituents that adjoin on the right, such as right adjuncts and right conjuncts. In CCG, many right-branching derivations can be replaced by semantically equivalent left-branching incremental derivations. The problem of right-adjunction is more resistant to solution, and has been tackled in the past using revealing-based approaches that often rely either on the higher-order unification over lambda terms (Pareschi and Steedman,1987) or heuristics over dependency representations that do not cover the whole CCGbank (Ambati et al., 2015). We propose a new incremental parsing algorithm for CCG following the same revealing tradition of work but having a purely syntactic approach that does not depend on access to a distinct level of semantic representation. This algorithm can cover the whole CCGbank, with greater incrementality and accuracy than previous proposals.
Variational autoencoders (VAE) with an auto-regressive decoder have been applied for many natural language processing (NLP) tasks. VAE objective consists of two terms, the KL regularization term and the reconstruction term, balanced by a weighting hyper-parameter $\beta$. One notorious training difficulty is that the KL term tends to vanish. In this paper we study different scheduling schemes for $\beta$, and show that KL vanishing is caused by the lack of good latent codes in training decoder at the beginning of optimization. To remedy the issue, we propose a cyclical annealing schedule, which simply repeats the process of increasing $\beta$ multiple times. This new procedure allows us to learn more meaningful latent codes progressively by leveraging the results of previous learning cycles as warm re-restart. The effectiveness of cyclical annealing schedule is validated on a broad range of NLP tasks, including language modeling, dialog response generation and semi-supervised text classification.
The current state-of-the-art in neural graph-based parsing uses only approximate decoding at the training phase. In this paper aim to understand this result better. We show how recurrent models can carry out projective maximum spanning tree decoding. This result holds for both current state-of-the-art models for shift-reduce and graph-based parsers, projective or not. We also provide the first proof on the lower bounds of projective maximum spanning tree decoding.
Ellipsis is a natural language phenomenon where part of a sentence is missing and its information must be recovered from its surrounding context, as in {``}Cats chase dogs and so do foxes.{''}. Formal semantics has different methods for resolving ellipsis and recovering the missing information, but the problem has not been considered for distributional semantics, where words have vector embeddings and combinations thereof provide embeddings for sentences. In elliptical sentences these combinations go beyond linear as copying of elided information is necessary. In this paper, we develop different models for embedding VP-elliptical sentences. We extend existing verb disambiguation and sentence similarity datasets to ones containing elliptical phrases and evaluate our models on these datasets for a variety of non-linear combinations and their linear counterparts. We compare results of these compositional models to state of the art holistic sentence encoders. Our results show that non-linear addition and a non-linear tensor-based composition outperform the naive non-compositional baselines and the linear models, and that sentence encoders perform well on sentence similarity, but not on verb disambiguation.
We introduce neural finite state transducers (NFSTs), a family of string transduction models defining joint and conditional probability distributions over pairs of strings. The probability of a string pair is obtained by marginalizing over all its accepting paths in a finite state transducer. In contrast to ordinary weighted FSTs, however, each path is scored using an arbitrary function such as a recurrent neural network, which breaks the usual conditional independence assumption (Markov property). NFSTs are more powerful than previous finite-state models with neural features (Rastogi et al., 2016.) We present training and inference algorithms for locally and globally normalized variants of NFSTs. In experiments on different transduction tasks, they compete favorably against seq2seq models while offering interpretable paths that correspond to hard monotonic alignments.
Recurrent Variational Autoencoder has been widely used for language modeling and text generation tasks. These models often face a difficult optimization problem, also known as KL vanishing, where the posterior easily collapses to the prior and model will ignore latent codes in generative tasks. To address this problem, we introduce an improved Variational Wasserstein Autoencoder (WAE) with Riemannian Normalizing Flow (RNF) for text modeling. The RNF transforms a latent variable into a space that respects the geometric characteristics of input space, which makes posterior impossible to collapse to the non-informative prior. The Wasserstein objective minimizes the distance between marginal distribution and the prior directly and therefore does not force the posterior to match the prior. Empirical experiments show that our model avoids KL vanishing over a range of datasets and has better performance in tasks such as language modeling, likelihood approximation, and text generation. Through a series of experiments and analysis over latent space, we show that our model learns latent distributions that respect latent space geometry and is able to generate sentences that are more diverse.
Developing bots demands highquality training samples, typically in the form of user utterances and their associated intents. Given the fuzzy nature of human language, such datasets ideally must cover all possible utterances of each single intent. Crowdsourcing has widely been used to collect such inclusive datasets by paraphrasing an initial utterance. However, the quality of this approach often suffers from various issues, particularly language errors produced by unqualified crowd workers. More so, since workers are tasked to write open-ended text, it is very challenging to automatically asses the quality of paraphrased utterances. In this paper, we investigate common crowdsourced paraphrasing issues, and propose an annotated dataset called Para-Quality, for detecting the quality issues. We also investigate existing tools and services to provide baselines for detecting each category of issues. In all, this work presents a data-driven view of incorrect paraphrases during the bot development process, and we pave the way towards automatic detection of unqualified paraphrases.
To bridge the gap between the capabilities of the state-of-the-art in factoid question answering (QA) and what users ask, we need large datasets of real user questions that capture the various question phenomena users are interested in, and the diverse ways in which these questions are formulated. We introduce ComQA, a large dataset of real user questions that exhibit different challenging aspects such as compositionality, temporal reasoning, and comparisons. ComQA questions come from the WikiAnswers community QA platform, which typically contains questions that are not satisfactorily answerable by existing search engine technology. Through a large crowdsourcing effort, we clean the question dataset, group questions into paraphrase clusters, and annotate clusters with their answers. ComQA contains 11,214 questions grouped into 4,834 paraphrase clusters. We detail the process of constructing ComQA, including the measures taken to ensure its high quality while making effective use of crowdsourcing. We also present an extensive analysis of the dataset and the results achieved by state-of-the-art systems on ComQA, demonstrating that our dataset can be a driver of future research on QA.
In this paper, we present a new data set, named FreebaseQA, for open-domain factoid question answering (QA) tasks over structured knowledge bases, like Freebase. The data set is generated by matching trivia-type question-answer pairs with subject-predicate-object triples in Freebase. For each collected question-answer pair, we first tag all entities in each question and search for relevant predicates that bridge a tagged entity with the answer in Freebase. Finally, human annotation is used to remove any false positive in these matched triples. Using this method, we are able to efficiently generate over 54K matches from about 28K unique questions with minimal cost. Our analysis shows that this data set is suitable for model training in factoid QA tasks beyond simpler questions since FreebaseQA provides more linguistically sophisticated questions than other existing data sets.
Knowledge graph based simple question answering (KBSQA) is a major area of research within question answering. Although only dealing with simple questions, i.e., questions that can be answered through a single knowledge base (KB) fact, this task is neither simple nor close to being solved. Targeting on the two main steps, subgraph selection and fact selection, the literature has developed sophisticated approaches. However, the importance of subgraph ranking and leveraging the subject{--}relation dependency of a KB fact have not been sufficiently explored. Motivated by this, we present a unified framework to describe and analyze existing approaches. Using this framework as a starting point we focus on two aspects: improving subgraph selection through a novel ranking method, and leveraging the subject{--}relation dependency by proposing a joint scoring CNN model with a novel loss function that enforces the well-order of scores. Our methods achieve a new state of the art (85.44{\%} in accuracy) on the SimpleQuestions dataset.
Open-domain question answering remains a challenging task as it requires models that are capable of understanding questions and answers, collecting useful information, and reasoning over evidence. Previous work typically formulates this task as a reading comprehension or entailment problem given evidence retrieved from search engines. However, existing techniques struggle to retrieve indirectly related evidence when no directly related evidence is provided, especially for complex questions where it is hard to parse precisely what the question asks. In this paper we propose a retriever-reader model that learns to attend on essential terms during the question answering process. We build (1) an essential term selector which first identifies the most important words in a question, then reformulates the query and searches for related evidence; and (2) an enhanced reader that distinguishes between essential terms and distracting words to predict the answer. We evaluate our model on multiple open-domain QA datasets, notably achieving the level of the state-of-the-art on the AI2 Reasoning Challenge (ARC) dataset.
In relation extraction for knowledge-based question answering, searching from one entity to another entity via a single relation is called {``}one hop{''}. In related work, an exhaustive search from all one-hop relations, two-hop relations, and so on to the max-hop relations in the knowledge graph is necessary but expensive. Therefore, the number of hops is generally restricted to two or three. In this paper, we propose UHop, an unrestricted-hop framework which relaxes this restriction by use of a transition-based search framework to replace the relation-chain-based search one. We conduct experiments on conventional 1- and 2-hop questions as well as lengthy questions, including datasets such as WebQSP, PathQuestion, and Grid World. Results show that the proposed framework enables the ability to halt, works well with state-of-the-art models, achieves competitive performance without exhaustive searches, and opens the performance gap for long relation paths.
Multi-hop reasoning question answering requires deep comprehension of relationships between various documents and queries. We propose a Bi-directional Attention Entity Graph Convolutional Network (BAG), leveraging relationships between nodes in an entity graph and attention information between a query and the entity graph, to solve this task. Graph convolutional networks are used to obtain a relation-aware representation of nodes for entity graphs built from documents with multi-level features. Bidirectional attention is then applied on graphs and queries to generate a query-aware nodes representation, which will be used for the final prediction. Experimental evaluation shows BAG achieves state-of-the-art accuracy performance on the QAngaroo WIKIHOP dataset.
In this paper, we propose a novel representation for text documents based on aggregating word embedding vectors into document embeddings. Our approach is inspired by the Vector of Locally-Aggregated Descriptors used for image representation, and it works as follows. First, the word embeddings gathered from a collection of documents are clustered by k-means in order to learn a codebook of semnatically-related word embeddings. Each word embedding is then associated to its nearest cluster centroid (codeword). The Vector of Locally-Aggregated Word Embeddings (VLAWE) representation of a document is then computed by accumulating the differences between each codeword vector and each word vector (from the document) associated to the respective codeword. We plug the VLAWE representation, which is learned in an unsupervised manner, into a classifier and show that it is useful for a diverse set of text classification tasks. We compare our approach with a broad range of recent state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach. Furthermore, we obtain a considerable improvement on the Movie Review data set, reporting an accuracy of 93.3{\%}, which represents an absolute gain of 10{\%} over the state-of-the-art approach.
Related tasks often have inter-dependence on each other and perform better when solved in a joint framework. In this paper, we present a deep multi-task learning framework that jointly performs sentiment and emotion analysis both. The multi-modal inputs (i.e. text, acoustic and visual frames) of a video convey diverse and distinctive information, and usually do not have equal contribution in the decision making. We propose a context-level inter-modal attention framework for simultaneously predicting the sentiment and expressed emotions of an utterance. We evaluate our proposed approach on CMU-MOSEI dataset for multi-modal sentiment and emotion analysis. Evaluation results suggest that multi-task learning framework offers improvement over the single-task framework. The proposed approach reports new state-of-the-art performance for both sentiment analysis and emotion analysis.
In this paper, we propose a variational approach to weakly supervised document-level multi-aspect sentiment classification. Instead of using user-generated ratings or annotations provided by domain experts, we use target-opinion word pairs as {``}supervision.{''} These word pairs can be extracted by using dependency parsers and simple rules. Our objective is to predict an opinion word given a target word while our ultimate goal is to learn a sentiment polarity classifier to predict the sentiment polarity of each aspect given a document. By introducing a latent variable, i.e., the sentiment polarity, to the objective function, we can inject the sentiment polarity classifier to the objective via the variational lower bound. We can learn a sentiment polarity classifier by optimizing the lower bound. We show that our method can outperform weakly supervised baselines on TripAdvisor and BeerAdvocate datasets and can be comparable to the state-of-the-art supervised method with hundreds of labels per aspect.
In this paper, we address three challenges in utterance-level emotion recognition in dialogue systems: (1) the same word can deliver different emotions in different contexts; (2) some emotions are rarely seen in general dialogues; (3) long-range contextual information is hard to be effectively captured. We therefore propose a hierarchical Gated Recurrent Unit (HiGRU) framework with a lower-level GRU to model the word-level inputs and an upper-level GRU to capture the contexts of utterance-level embeddings. Moreover, we promote the framework to two variants, Hi-GRU with individual features fusion (HiGRU-f) and HiGRU with self-attention and features fusion (HiGRU-sf), so that the word/utterance-level individual inputs and the long-range contextual information can be sufficiently utilized. Experiments on three dialogue emotion datasets, IEMOCAP, Friends, and EmotionPush demonstrate that our proposed Hi-GRU models attain at least 8.7{\%}, 7.5{\%}, 6.0{\%} improvement over the state-of-the-art methods on each dataset, respectively. Particularly, by utilizing only the textual feature in IEMOCAP, our HiGRU models gain at least 3.8{\%} improvement over the state-of-the-art conversational memory network (CMN) with the trimodal features of text, video, and audio.
Negation scope detection is widely performed as a supervised learning task which relies upon negation labels at word level. This suffers from two key drawbacks: (1) such granular annotations are costly and (2) highly subjective, since, due to the absence of explicit linguistic resolution rules, human annotators often disagree in the perceived negation scopes. To the best of our knowledge, our work presents the first approach that eliminates the need for world-level negation labels, replacing it instead with document-level sentiment annotations. For this, we present a novel strategy for learning fully interpretable negation rules via weak supervision: we apply reinforcement learning to find a policy that reconstructs negation rules from sentiment predictions at document level. Our experiments demonstrate that our approach for weak supervision can effectively learn negation rules. Furthermore, an out-of-sample evaluation via sentiment analysis reveals consistent improvements (of up to 4.66{\%}) over both a sentiment analysis with (i) no negation handling and (ii) the use of word-level annotations from humans. Moreover, the inferred negation rules are fully interpretable.
Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) is the task of training a statistical model on labeled data from a source domain to achieve better performance on data from a target domain, with access to only unlabeled data in the target domain. Existing state-of-the-art UDA approaches use neural networks to learn representations that are trained to predict the values of subset of important features called {``}pivot features{''} on combined data from the source and target domains. In this work, we show that it is possible to improve on existing neural domain adaptation algorithms by 1) jointly training the representation learner with the task learner; and 2) removing the need for heuristically-selected {``}pivot features.{''} Our results show competitive performance with a simpler model.
Word embeddings learned in two languages can be mapped to a common space to produce Bilingual Word Embeddings (BWE). Unsupervised BWE methods learn such a mapping without any parallel data. However, these methods are mainly evaluated on tasks of word translation or word similarity. We show that these methods fail to capture the sentiment information and do not perform well enough on cross-lingual sentiment analysis. In this work, we propose UBiSE (Unsupervised Bilingual Sentiment Embeddings), which learns sentiment-specific word representations for two languages in a common space without any cross-lingual supervision. Our method only requires a sentiment corpus in the source language and pretrained monolingual word embeddings of both languages. We evaluate our method on three language pairs for cross-lingual sentiment analysis. Experimental results show that our method outperforms previous unsupervised BWE methods and even supervised BWE methods. Our method succeeds for a distant language pair English-Basque.
Regularization of neural machine translation is still a significant problem, especially in low-resource settings. To mollify this problem, we propose regressing word embeddings (ReWE) as a new regularization technique in a system that is jointly trained to predict the next word in the translation (categorical value) and its word embedding (continuous value). Such a joint training allows the proposed system to learn the distributional properties represented by the word embeddings, empirically improving the generalization to unseen sentences. Experiments over three translation datasets have showed a consistent improvement over a strong baseline, ranging between 0.91 and 2.4 BLEU points, and also a marked improvement over a state-of-the-art system.
A desideratum of high-quality translation systems is that they preserve meaning, in the sense that two sentences with different meanings should not translate to one and the same sentence in another language. However, state-of-the-art systems often fail in this regard, particularly in cases where the source and target languages partition the {``}meaning space{''} in different ways. For instance, {``}I cut my finger.{''} and {``}I cut my finger off.{''} describe different states of the world but are translated to French (by both Fairseq and Google Translate) as {``}Je me suis coup{\'e} le doigt.{''}, which is ambiguous as to whether the finger is detached. More generally, translation systems are typically many-to-one (non-injective) functions from source to target language, which in many cases results in important distinctions in meaning being lost in translation. Building on Bayesian models of informative utterance production, we present a method to define a less ambiguous translation system in terms of an underlying pre-trained neural sequence-to-sequence model. This method increases injectivity, resulting in greater preservation of meaning as measured by improvement in cycle-consistency, without impeding translation quality (measured by BLEU score).
We aim to better exploit the limited amounts of parallel text available in low-resource settings by introducing a differentiable reconstruction loss for neural machine translation (NMT). This loss compares original inputs to reconstructed inputs, obtained by back-translating translation hypotheses into the input language. We leverage differentiable sampling and bi-directional NMT to train models end-to-end, without introducing additional parameters. This approach achieves small but consistent BLEU improvements on four language pairs in both translation directions, and outperforms an alternative differentiable reconstruction strategy based on hidden states.
Leveraging user-provided translation to constrain NMT has practical significance. Existing methods can be classified into two main categories, namely the use of placeholder tags for lexicon words and the use of hard constraints during decoding. Both methods can hurt translation fidelity for various reasons. We investigate a data augmentation method, making code-switched training data by replacing source phrases with their target translations. Our method does not change the MNT model or decoding algorithm, allowing the model to learn lexicon translations by copying source-side target words. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves consistent improvements over existing approaches, improving translation of constrained words without hurting unconstrained words.
The problem of learning to translate between two vector spaces given a set of aligned points arises in several application areas of NLP. Current solutions assume that the lexicon which defines the alignment pairs is noise-free. We consider the case where the set of aligned points is allowed to contain an amount of noise, in the form of incorrect lexicon pairs and show that this arises in practice by analyzing the edited dictionaries after the cleaning process. We demonstrate that such noise substantially degrades the accuracy of the learned translation when using current methods. We propose a model that accounts for noisy pairs. This is achieved by introducing a generative model with a compatible iterative EM algorithm. The algorithm jointly learns the noise level in the lexicon, finds the set of noisy pairs, and learns the mapping between the spaces. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm on two alignment problems: bilingual word embedding translation, and mapping between diachronic embedding spaces for recovering the semantic shifts of words across time periods.
Multilayer architectures are currently the gold standard for large-scale neural machine translation. Existing works have explored some methods for understanding the hidden representations, however, they have not sought to improve the translation quality rationally according to their understanding. Towards understanding for performance improvement, we first artificially construct a sequence of nested relative tasks and measure the feature generalization ability of the learned hidden representation over these tasks. Based on our understanding, we then propose to regularize the layer-wise representations with all tree-induced tasks. To overcome the computational bottleneck resulting from the large number of regularization terms, we design efficient approximation methods by selecting a few coarse-to-fine tasks for regularization. Extensive experiments on two widely-used datasets demonstrate the proposed methods only lead to small extra overheads in training but no additional overheads in testing, and achieve consistent improvements (up to +1.3 BLEU) compared to the state-of-the-art translation model.
Syntactic analysis plays an important role in semantic parsing, but the nature of this role remains a topic of ongoing debate. The debate has been constrained by the scarcity of empirical comparative studies between syntactic and semantic schemes, which hinders the development of parsing methods informed by the details of target schemes and constructions. We target this gap, and take Universal Dependencies (UD) and UCCA as a test case. After abstracting away from differences of convention or formalism, we find that most content divergences can be ascribed to: (1) UCCA{'}s distinction between a Scene and a non-Scene; (2) UCCA{'}s distinction between primary relations, secondary ones and participants; (3) different treatment of multi-word expressions, and (4) different treatment of inter-clause linkage. We further discuss the long tail of cases where the two schemes take markedly different approaches. Finally, we show that the proposed comparison methodology can be used for fine-grained evaluation of UCCA parsing, highlighting both challenges and potential sources for improvement. The substantial differences between the schemes suggest that semantic parsers are likely to benefit downstream text understanding applications beyond their syntactic counterparts.
Learning high-quality embeddings for rare words is a hard problem because of sparse context information. Mimicking (Pinter et al., 2017) has been proposed as a solution: given embeddings learned by a standard algorithm, a model is first trained to reproduce embeddings of frequent words from their surface form and then used to compute embeddings for rare words. In this paper, we introduce attentive mimicking: the mimicking model is given access not only to a word{'}s surface form, but also to all available contexts and learns to attend to the most informative and reliable contexts for computing an embedding. In an evaluation on four tasks, we show that attentive mimicking outperforms previous work for both rare and medium-frequency words. Thus, compared to previous work, attentive mimicking improves embeddings for a much larger part of the vocabulary, including the medium-frequency range.
Research in the area of style transfer for text is currently bottlenecked by a lack of standard evaluation practices. This paper aims to alleviate this issue by experimentally identifying best practices with a Yelp sentiment dataset. We specify three aspects of interest (style transfer intensity, content preservation, and naturalness) and show how to obtain more reliable measures of them from human evaluation than in previous work. We propose a set of metrics for automated evaluation and demonstrate that they are more strongly correlated and in agreement with human judgment: direction-corrected Earth Mover{'}s Distance, Word Mover{'}s Distance on style-masked texts, and adversarial classification for the respective aspects. We also show that the three examined models exhibit tradeoffs between aspects of interest, demonstrating the importance of evaluating style transfer models at specific points of their tradeoff plots. We release software with our evaluation metrics to facilitate research.
Bigrams (two-word sequences) hold a special place in semantic composition research since they are the smallest unit formed by composing words. A semantic relatedness dataset that includes bigrams will thus be useful in the development of automatic methods of semantic composition. However, existing relatedness datasets only include pairs of unigrams (single words). Further, existing datasets were created using rating scales and thus suffer from limitations such as in consistent annotations and scale region bias. In this paper, we describe how we created a large, fine-grained, bigram relatedness dataset (BiRD), using a comparative annotation technique called Best{--}Worst Scaling. Each of BiRD{'}s 3,345 English term pairs involves at least one bigram. We show that the relatedness scores obtained are highly reliable (split-half reliability r= 0.937). We analyze the data to obtain insights into bigram semantic relatedness. Finally, we present benchmark experiments on using the relatedness dataset as a testbed to evaluate simple unsupervised measures of semantic composition. BiRD is made freely available to foster further research on how meaning can be represented and how meaning can be composed.
In a corpus of data, outliers are either errors: mistakes in the data that are counterproductive, or are unique: informative samples that improve model robustness. Identifying outliers can lead to better datasets by (1) removing noise in datasets and (2) guiding collection of additional data to fill gaps. However, the problem of detecting both outlier types has received relatively little attention in NLP, particularly for dialog systems. We introduce a simple and effective technique for detecting both erroneous and unique samples in a corpus of short texts using neural sentence embeddings combined with distance-based outlier detection. We also present a novel data collection pipeline built atop our detection technique to automatically and iteratively mine unique data samples while discarding erroneous samples. Experiments show that our outlier detection technique is effective at finding errors while our data collection pipeline yields highly diverse corpora that in turn produce more robust intent classification and slot-filling models.
People often share personal narratives in order to seek advice from others. To properly infer the narrator{'}s intention, one needs to apply a certain degree of common sense and social intuition. To test the capabilities of NLP systems to recover such intuition, we introduce the new task of inferring what is the advice-seeking goal behind a personal narrative. We formulate this as a cloze test, where the goal is to identify which of two advice-seeking questions was removed from a given narrative. The main challenge in constructing this task is finding pairs of semantically plausible advice-seeking questions for given narratives. To address this challenge, we devise a method that exploits commonalities in experiences people share online to automatically extract pairs of questions that are appropriate candidates for the cloze task. This results in a dataset of over 20,000 personal narratives, each matched with a pair of related advice-seeking questions: one actually intended by the narrator, and the other one not. The dataset covers a very broad array of human experiences, from dating, to career options, to stolen iPads. We use human annotation to determine the degree to which the task relies on common sense and social intuition in addition to a semantic understanding of the narrative. By introducing several baselines for this new task we demonstrate its feasibility and identify avenues for better modeling the intention of the narrator.
One key consequence of the information revolution is a significant increase and a contamination of our information supply. The practice of fact checking won{'}t suffice to eliminate the biases in text data we observe, as the degree of factuality alone does not determine whether biases exist in the spectrum of opinions visible to us. To better understand controversial issues, one needs to view them from a diverse yet comprehensive set of perspectives. For example, there are many ways to respond to a claim such as {``}animals should have lawful rights{''}, and these responses form a spectrum of perspectives, each with a stance relative to this claim and, ideally, with evidence supporting it. Inherently, this is a natural language understanding task, and we propose to address it as such. Specifically, we propose the task of substantiated perspective discovery where, given a claim, a system is expected to discover a diverse set of well-corroborated perspectives that take a stance with respect to the claim. Each perspective should be substantiated by evidence paragraphs which summarize pertinent results and facts. We construct PERSPECTRUM, a dataset of claims, perspectives and evidence, making use of online debate websites to create the initial data collection, and augmenting it using search engines in order to expand and diversify our dataset. We use crowd-sourcing to filter out noise and ensure high-quality data. Our dataset contains 1k claims, accompanied with pools of 10k and 8k perspective sentences and evidence paragraphs, respectively. We provide a thorough analysis of the dataset to highlight key underlying language understanding challenges, and show that human baselines across multiple subtasks far outperform ma-chine baselines built upon state-of-the-art NLP techniques. This poses a challenge and opportunity for the NLP community to address.
Claims are the central component of an argument. Detecting claims across different domains or data sets can often be challenging due to their varying conceptualization. We propose to alleviate this problem by fine-tuning a language model using a Reddit corpus of 5.5 million opinionated claims. These claims are self-labeled by their authors using the internet acronyms IMO/IMHO (in my (humble) opinion). Empirical results show that using this approach improves the state of art performance across four benchmark argumentation data sets by an average of 4 absolute F1 points in claim detection. As these data sets include diverse domains such as social media and student essays this improvement demonstrates the robustness of fine-tuning on this novel corpus.
Neural network models have recently gained traction for sentence-level intent classification and token-based slot-label identification. In many real-world scenarios, users have multiple intents in the same utterance, and a token-level slot label can belong to more than one intent. We investigate an attention-based neural network model that performs multi-label classification for identifying multiple intents and produces labels for both intents and slot-labels at the token-level. We show state-of-the-art performance for both intent detection and slot-label identification by comparing against strong, recently proposed models. Our model provides a small but statistically significant improvement of 0.2{\%} on the predominantly single-intent ATIS public data set, and 55{\%} intent accuracy improvement on an internal multi-intent dataset.
This paper presents a novel crowd-sourced resource for multimodal discourse: our resource characterizes inferences in image-text contexts in the domain of cooking recipes in the form of coherence relations. Like previous corpora annotating discourse structure between text arguments, such as the Penn Discourse Treebank, our new corpus aids in establishing a better understanding of natural communication and common-sense reasoning, while our findings have implications for a wide range of applications, such as understanding and generation of multimodal documents.
A typical conversation comprises of multiple turns between participants where they go back and forth between different topics. At each user turn, dialogue state tracking (DST) aims to estimate user{'}s goal by processing the current utterance. However, in many turns, users implicitly refer to the previous goal, necessitating the use of relevant dialogue history. Nonetheless, distinguishing relevant history is challenging and a popular method of using dialogue recency for that is inefficient. We, therefore, propose a novel framework for DST that identifies relevant historical context by referring to the past utterances where a particular slot-value changes and uses that together with weighted system utterance to identify the relevant context. Specifically, we use the current user utterance and the most recent system utterance to determine the relevance of a system utterance. Empirical analyses show that our method improves joint goal accuracy by 2.75{\%} and 2.36{\%} on WoZ 2.0 and Multi-WoZ restaurant domain datasets respectively over the previous state-of-the-art GLAD model.
Visual Dialog is a multimodal task of answering a sequence of questions grounded in an image (using the conversation history as context). It entails challenges in vision, language, reasoning, and grounding. However, studying these subtasks in isolation on large, real datasets is infeasible as it requires prohibitively-expensive complete annotation of the {`}state{'} of all images and dialogs. We develop CLEVR-Dialog, a large diagnostic dataset for studying multi-round reasoning in visual dialog. Specifically, we construct a dialog grammar that is grounded in the scene graphs of the images from the CLEVR dataset. This combination results in a dataset where all aspects of the visual dialog are fully annotated. In total, CLEVR-Dialog contains 5 instances of 10-round dialogs for about 85k CLEVR images, totaling to 4.25M question-answer pairs. We use CLEVR-Dialog to benchmark performance of standard visual dialog models; in particular, on visual coreference resolution (as a function of the coreference distance). This is the first analysis of its kind for visual dialog models that was not possible without this dataset. We hope the findings from CLEVR-Dialog will help inform the development of future models for visual dialog. Our code and dataset are publicly available.
Most current approaches to metaphor identification use restricted linguistic contexts, e.g. by considering only a verb{'}s arguments or the sentence containing a phrase. Inspired by pragmatic accounts of metaphor, we argue that broader discourse features are crucial for better metaphor identification. We train simple gradient boosting classifiers on representations of an utterance and its surrounding discourse learned with a variety of document embedding methods, obtaining near state-of-the-art results on the 2018 VU Amsterdam metaphor identification task without the complex metaphor-specific features or deep neural architectures employed by other systems. A qualitative analysis further confirms the need for broader context in metaphor processing.
We discuss the impact of data bias on abusive language detection. We show that classification scores on popular datasets reported in previous work are much lower under realistic settings in which this bias is reduced. Such biases are most notably observed on datasets that are created by focused sampling instead of random sampling. Datasets with a higher proportion of implicit abuse are more affected than datasets with a lower proportion.
Word embeddings are widely used in NLP for a vast range of tasks. It was shown that word embeddings derived from text corpora reflect gender biases in society. This phenomenon is pervasive and consistent across different word embedding models, causing serious concern. Several recent works tackle this problem, and propose methods for significantly reducing this gender bias in word embeddings, demonstrating convincing results. However, we argue that this removal is superficial. While the bias is indeed substantially reduced according to the provided bias definition, the actual effect is mostly hiding the bias, not removing it. The gender bias information is still reflected in the distances between {``}gender-neutralized{''} words in the debiased embeddings, and can be recovered from them. We present a series of experiments to support this claim, for two debiasing methods. We conclude that existing bias removal techniques are insufficient, and should not be trusted for providing gender-neutral modeling.
Online texts - across genres, registers, domains, and styles - are riddled with human stereotypes, expressed in overt or subtle ways. Word embeddings, trained on these texts, perpetuate and amplify these stereotypes, and propagate biases to machine learning models that use word embeddings as features. In this work, we propose a method to debias word embeddings in multiclass settings such as race and religion, extending the work of (Bolukbasi et al., 2016) from the binary setting, such as binary gender. Next, we propose a novel methodology for the evaluation of multiclass debiasing. We demonstrate that our multiclass debiasing is robust and maintains the efficacy in standard NLP tasks.
The Word Embedding Association Test shows that GloVe and word2vec word embeddings exhibit human-like implicit biases based on gender, race, and other social constructs (Caliskan et al., 2017). Meanwhile, research on learning reusable text representations has begun to explore sentence-level texts, with some sentence encoders seeing enthusiastic adoption. Accordingly, we extend the Word Embedding Association Test to measure bias in sentence encoders. We then test several sentence encoders, including state-of-the-art methods such as ELMo and BERT, for the social biases studied in prior work and two important biases that are difficult or impossible to test at the word level. We observe mixed results including suspicious patterns of sensitivity that suggest the test{'}s assumptions may not hold in general. We conclude by proposing directions for future work on measuring bias in sentence encoders.
In this paper, we quantify, analyze and mitigate gender bias exhibited in ELMo{'}s contextualized word vectors. First, we conduct several intrinsic analyses and find that (1) training data for ELMo contains significantly more male than female entities, (2) the trained ELMo embeddings systematically encode gender information and (3) ELMo unequally encodes gender information about male and female entities. Then, we show that a state-of-the-art coreference system that depends on ELMo inherits its bias and demonstrates significant bias on the WinoBias probing corpus. Finally, we explore two methods to mitigate such gender bias and show that the bias demonstrated on WinoBias can be eliminated.
When assigning quantitative labels to a dataset, different methodologies may rely on different scales. In particular, when assigning polarities to words in a sentiment lexicon, annotators may use binary, categorical, or continuous labels. Naturally, it is of interest to unify these labels from disparate scales to both achieve maximal coverage over words and to create a single, more robust sentiment lexicon while retaining scale coherence. We introduce a generative model of sentiment lexica to combine disparate scales into a common latent representation. We realize this model with a novel multi-view variational autoencoder (VAE), called SentiVAE. We evaluate our approach via a downstream text classification task involving nine English-Language sentiment analysis datasets; our representation outperforms six individual sentiment lexica, as well as a straightforward combination thereof.
Opinion role labeling (ORL) is an important task for fine-grained opinion mining, which identifies important opinion arguments such as holder and target for a given opinion trigger. The task is highly correlative with semantic role labeling (SRL), which identifies important semantic arguments such as agent and patient for a given predicate. As predicate agents and patients usually correspond to opinion holders and targets respectively, SRL could be valuable for ORL. In this work, we propose a simple and novel method to enhance ORL by utilizing SRL, presenting semantic-aware word representations which are learned from SRL. The representations are then fed into a baseline neural ORL model as basic inputs. We verify the proposed method on a benchmark MPQA corpus. Experimental results show that the proposed method is highly effective. In addition, we compare the method with two representative methods of SRL integration as well, finding that our method can outperform the two methods significantly, achieving 1.47{\%} higher F-scores than the better one.
The development of a fictional plot is centered around characters who closely interact with each other forming dynamic social networks. In literature analysis, such networks have mostly been analyzed without particular relation types or focusing on roles which the characters take with respect to each other. We argue that an important aspect for the analysis of stories and their development is the emotion between characters. In this paper, we combine these aspects into a unified framework to classify emotional relationships of fictional characters. We formalize it as a new task and describe the annotation of a corpus, based on fan-fiction short stories. The extraction pipeline which we propose consists of character identification (which we treat as given by an oracle here) and the relation classification. For the latter, we provide results using several approaches previously proposed for relation identification with neural methods. The best result of 0.45 F1 is achieved with a GRU with character position indicators on the task of predicting undirected emotion relations in the associated social network graph.
Authorship verification is the problem of inferring whether two texts were written by the same author. For this task, unmasking is one of the most robust approaches as of today with the major shortcoming of only being applicable to book-length texts. In this paper, we present a generalized unmasking approach which allows for authorship verification of texts as short as four printed pages with very high precision at an adjustable recall tradeoff. Our generalized approach therefore reduces the required material by orders of magnitude, making unmasking applicable to authorship cases of more practical proportions. The new approach is on par with other state-of-the-art techniques that are optimized for texts of this length: it achieves accuracies of 75{--}80{\%}, while also allowing for easy adjustment to forensic scenarios that require higher levels of confidence in the classification.
The automatic detection of satire vs. regular news is relevant for downstream applications (for instance, knowledge base population) and to improve the understanding of linguistic characteristics of satire. Recent approaches build upon corpora which have been labeled automatically based on article sources. We hypothesize that this encourages the models to learn characteristics for different publication sources (e.g., {``}The Onion{''} vs. {``}The Guardian{''}) rather than characteristics of satire, leading to poor generalization performance to unseen publication sources. We therefore propose a novel model for satire detection with an adversarial component to control for the confounding variable of publication source. On a large novel data set collected from German news (which we make available to the research community), we observe comparable satire classification performance and, as desired, a considerable drop in publication classification performance with adversarial training. Our analysis shows that the adversarial component is crucial for the model to learn to pay attention to linguistic properties of satire.
Authors{'} keyphrases assigned to scientific articles are essential for recognizing content and topic aspects. Most of the proposed supervised and unsupervised methods for keyphrase generation are unable to produce terms that are valuable but do not appear in the text. In this paper, we explore the possibility of considering the keyphrase string as an abstractive summary of the title and the abstract. First, we collect, process and release a large dataset of scientific paper metadata that contains 2.2 million records. Then we experiment with popular text summarization neural architectures. Despite using advanced deep learning models, large quantities of data and many days of computation, our systematic evaluation on four test datasets reveals that the explored text summarization methods could not produce better keyphrases than the simpler unsupervised methods, or the existing supervised ones.
Neural sequence-to-sequence models are currently the dominant approach in several natural language processing tasks, but require large parallel corpora. We present a sequence-to-sequence-to-sequence autoencoder (SEQ{\^{}}3), consisting of two chained encoder-decoder pairs, with words used as a sequence of discrete latent variables. We apply the proposed model to unsupervised abstractive sentence compression, where the first and last sequences are the input and reconstructed sentences, respectively, while the middle sequence is the compressed sentence. Constraining the length of the latent word sequences forces the model to distill important information from the input. A pretrained language model, acting as a prior over the latent sequences, encourages the compressed sentences to be human-readable. Continuous relaxations enable us to sample from categorical distributions, allowing gradient-based optimization, unlike alternatives that rely on reinforcement learning. The proposed model does not require parallel text-summary pairs, achieving promising results in unsupervised sentence compression on benchmark datasets.
Conducting a manual evaluation is considered an essential part of summary evaluation methodology. Traditionally, the Pyramid protocol, which exhaustively compares system summaries to references, has been perceived as very reliable, providing objective scores. Yet, due to the high cost of the Pyramid method and the required expertise, researchers resorted to cheaper and less thorough manual evaluation methods, such as Responsiveness and pairwise comparison, attainable via crowdsourcing. We revisit the Pyramid approach, proposing a lightweight sampling-based version that is crowdsourcable. We analyze the performance of our method in comparison to original expert-based Pyramid evaluations, showing higher correlation relative to the common Responsiveness method. We release our crowdsourced Summary-Content-Units, along with all crowdsourcing scripts, for future evaluations.
Serial recall experiments study the ability of humans to recall words in the order in which they occurred. The following serial recall effects are generally investigated in studies with humans: word length and frequency, primacy and recency, semantic confusion, repetition, and transposition effects. In this research, we investigate neural language models in the context of these serial recall effects. Our work provides a framework to better understand and analyze neural language models and opens a new window to develop accurate language models.
Concept map-based multi-document summarization has recently been proposed as a variant of the traditional summarization task with graph-structured summaries. As shown by previous work, the grouping of coreferent concept mentions across documents is a crucial subtask of it. However, while the current state-of-the-art method suggested a new grouping method that was shown to improve the summary quality, its use of pairwise comparisons leads to polynomial runtime complexity that prohibits the application to large document collections. In this paper, we propose two alternative grouping techniques based on locality sensitive hashing, approximate nearest neighbor search and a fast clustering algorithm. They exhibit linear and log-linear runtime complexity, making them much more scalable. We report experimental results that confirm the improved runtime behavior while also showing that the quality of the summary concept maps remains comparable.
We introduce a new syntax-aware model for dependency-based semantic role labeling that outperforms syntax-agnostic models for English and Spanish. We use a BiLSTM to tag the text with supertags extracted from dependency parses, and we feed these supertags, along with words and parts of speech, into a deep highway BiLSTM for semantic role labeling. Our model combines the strengths of earlier models that performed SRL on the basis of a full dependency parse with more recent models that use no syntactic information at all. Our local and non-ensemble model achieves state-of-the-art performance on the CoNLL 09 English and Spanish datasets. SRL models benefit from syntactic information, and we show that supertagging is a simple, powerful, and robust way to incorporate syntax into a neural SRL system.
We propose a novel transition-based algorithm that straightforwardly parses sentences from left to right by building n attachments, with n being the length of the input sentence. Similarly to the recent stack-pointer parser by Ma et al. (2018), we use the pointer network framework that, given a word, can directly point to a position from the sentence. However, our left-to-right approach is simpler than the original top-down stack-pointer parser (not requiring a stack) and reduces transition sequence length in half, from 2n-1 actions to n. This results in a quadratic non-projective parser that runs twice as fast as the original while achieving the best accuracy to date on the English PTB dataset (96.04{\%} UAS, 94.43{\%} LAS) among fully-supervised single-model dependency parsers, and improves over the former top-down transition system in the majority of languages tested.
We recast dependency parsing as a sequence labeling problem, exploring several encodings of dependency trees as labels. While dependency parsing by means of sequence labeling had been attempted in existing work, results suggested that the technique was impractical. We show instead that with a conventional BILSTM-based model it is possible to obtain fast and accurate parsers. These parsers are conceptually simple, not needing traditional parsing algorithms or auxiliary structures. However, experiments on the PTB and a sample of UD treebanks show that they provide a good speed-accuracy tradeoff, with results competitive with more complex approaches.
Contextual string embeddings are a recent type of contextualized word embedding that were shown to yield state-of-the-art results when utilized in a range of sequence labeling tasks. They are based on character-level language models which treat text as distributions over characters and are capable of generating embeddings for any string of characters within any textual context. However, such purely character-based approaches struggle to produce meaningful embeddings if a rare string is used in a underspecified context. To address this drawback, we propose a method in which we dynamically aggregate contextualized embeddings of each unique string that we encounter. We then use a pooling operation to distill a {''}global{''} word representation from all contextualized instances. We evaluate these {''}pooled contextualized embeddings{''} on common named entity recognition (NER) tasks such as CoNLL-03 and WNUT and show that our approach significantly improves the state-of-the-art for NER. We make all code and pre-trained models available to the research community for use and reproduction.
Supervised approaches to named entity recognition (NER) are largely developed based on the assumption that the training data is fully annotated with named entity information. However, in practice, annotated data can often be imperfect with one typical issue being the training data may contain incomplete annotations. We highlight several pitfalls associated with learning under such a setup in the context of NER and identify limitations associated with existing approaches, proposing a novel yet easy-to-implement approach for recognizing named entities with incomplete data annotations. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through extensive experiments.
The goal of event detection (ED) is to detect the occurrences of events and categorize them. Previous work solved this task by recognizing and classifying event triggers, which is defined as the word or phrase that most clearly expresses an event occurrence. As a consequence, existing approaches required both annotated triggers and event types in training data. However, triggers are nonessential to event detection, and it is time-consuming for annotators to pick out the {``}most clearly{''} word from a given sentence, especially from a long sentence. The expensive annotation of training corpus limits the application of existing approaches. To reduce manual effort, we explore detecting events without triggers. In this work, we propose a novel framework dubbed as Type-aware Bias Neural Network with Attention Mechanisms (TBNNAM), which encodes the representation of a sentence based on target event types. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness. Remarkably, the proposed approach even achieves competitive performances compared with state-of-the-arts that used annotated triggers.
This paper introduces improved methods for sub-event detection in social media streams, by applying neural sequence models not only on the level of individual posts, but also directly on the stream level. Current approaches to identify sub-events within a given event, such as a goal during a soccer match, essentially do not exploit the sequential nature of social media streams. We address this shortcoming by framing the sub-event detection problem in social media streams as a sequence labeling task and adopt a neural sequence architecture that explicitly accounts for the chronological order of posts. Specifically, we (i) establish a neural baseline that outperforms a graph-based state-of-the-art method for binary sub-event detection (2.7{\%} micro-F1 improvement), as well as (ii) demonstrate superiority of a recurrent neural network model on the posts sequence level for labeled sub-events (2.4{\%} bin-level F1 improvement over non-sequential models).
Most modern Information Extraction (IE) systems are implemented as sequential taggers and only model local dependencies. Non-local and non-sequential context is, however, a valuable source of information to improve predictions. In this paper, we introduce GraphIE, a framework that operates over a graph representing a broad set of dependencies between textual units (i.e. words or sentences). The algorithm propagates information between connected nodes through graph convolutions, generating a richer representation that can be exploited to improve word-level predictions. Evaluation on three different tasks {---} namely textual, social media and visual information extraction {---} shows that GraphIE consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art sequence tagging model by a significant margin.
In this paper, we consider advancing web-scale knowledge extraction and alignment by integrating OpenIE extractions in the form of (subject, predicate, object) triples with Knowledge Bases (KB). Traditional techniques from universal schema and from schema mapping fall in two extremes: either they perform instance-level inference relying on embedding for (subject, object) pairs, thus cannot handle pairs absent in any existing triples; or they perform predicate-level mapping and completely ignore background evidence from individual entities, thus cannot achieve satisfying quality. We propose \textit{OpenKI} to handle sparsity of OpenIE extractions by performing instance-level inference: for each entity, we encode the rich information in its neighborhood in both KB and OpenIE extractions, and leverage this information in relation inference by exploring different methods of aggregation and attention. In order to handle unseen entities, our model is designed without creating entity-specific parameters. Extensive experiments show that this method not only significantly improves state-of-the-art for conventional OpenIE extractions like ReVerb, but also boosts the performance on OpenIE from semi-structured data, where new entity pairs are abundant and data are fairly sparse.
Existing entity typing systems usually exploit the type hierarchy provided by knowledge base (KB) schema to model label correlations and thus improve the overall performance. Such techniques, however, are not directly applicable to more open and practical scenarios where the type set is not restricted by KB schema and includes a vast number of free-form types. To model the underlying label correlations without access to manually annotated label structures, we introduce a novel label-relational inductive bias, represented by a graph propagation layer that effectively encodes both global label co-occurrence statistics and word-level similarities. On a large dataset with over 10,000 free-form types, the graph-enhanced model equipped with an attention-based matching module is able to achieve a much higher recall score while maintaining a high-level precision. Specifically, it achieves a 15.3{\%} relative F1 improvement and also less inconsistency in the outputs. We further show that a simple modification of our proposed graph layer can also improve the performance on a conventional and widely-tested dataset that only includes KB-schema types.
Argument compatibility is a linguistic condition that is frequently incorporated into modern event coreference resolution systems. If two event mentions have incompatible arguments in any of the argument roles, they cannot be coreferent. On the other hand, if these mentions have compatible arguments, then this may be used as information towards deciding their coreferent status. One of the key challenges in leveraging argument compatibility lies in the paucity of labeled data. In this work, we propose a transfer learning framework for event coreference resolution that utilizes a large amount of unlabeled data to learn argument compatibility of event mentions. In addition, we adopt an interactive inference network based model to better capture the compatible and incompatible relations between the context words of event mentions. Our experiments on the KBP 2017 English dataset confirm the effectiveness of our model in learning argument compatibility, which in turn improves the performance of the overall event coreference model.
Conventional approaches to relation extraction usually require a fixed set of pre-defined relations. Such requirement is hard to meet in many real applications, especially when new data and relations are emerging incessantly and it is computationally expensive to store all data and re-train the whole model every time new data and relations come in. We formulate such challenging problem as lifelong relation extraction and investigate memory-efficient incremental learning methods without catastrophically forgetting knowledge learned from previous tasks. We first investigate a modified version of the stochastic gradient methods with a replay memory, which surprisingly outperforms recent state-of-the-art lifelong learning methods. We further propose to improve this approach to alleviate the forgetting problem by anchoring the sentence embedding space. Specifically, we utilize an explicit alignment model to mitigate the sentence embedding distortion of learned model when training on new data and new relations. Experiment results on multiple benchmarks show that our proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art lifelong learning approaches.
Fine-grained Entity typing (FGET) is the task of assigning a fine-grained type from a hierarchy to entity mentions in the text. As the taxonomy of types evolves continuously, it is desirable for an entity typing system to be able to recognize novel types without additional training. This work proposes a zero-shot entity typing approach that utilizes the type description available from Wikipedia to build a distributed semantic representation of the types. During training, our system learns to align the entity mentions and their corresponding type representations on the known types. At test time, any new type can be incorporated into the system given its Wikipedia descriptions. We evaluate our approach on FIGER, a public benchmark entity tying dataset. Because the existing test set of FIGER covers only a small portion of the fine-grained types, we create a new test set by manually annotating a portion of the noisy training data. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in recognizing novel types that are not present in the training data.
In this paper, we present a method for adversarial decomposition of text representation. This method can be used to decompose a representation of an input sentence into several independent vectors, each of them responsible for a specific aspect of the input sentence. We evaluate the proposed method on two case studies: the conversion between different social registers and diachronic language change. We show that the proposed method is capable of fine-grained controlled change of these aspects of the input sentence. It is also learning a continuous (rather than categorical) representation of the style of the sentence, which is more linguistically realistic. The model uses adversarial-motivational training and includes a special motivational loss, which acts opposite to the discriminator and encourages a better decomposition. Furthermore, we evaluate the obtained meaning embeddings on a downstream task of paraphrase detection and show that they significantly outperform the embeddings of a regular autoencoder.
We introduce entity post-modifier generation as an instance of a collaborative writing task. Given a sentence about a target entity, the task is to automatically generate a post-modifier phrase that provides contextually relevant information about the entity. For example, for the sentence, {``}Barack Obama, {\_}{\_}{\_}{\_}{\_}{\_}{\_}, supported the {\#}MeToo movement.{''}, the phrase {``}a father of two girls{''} is a contextually relevant post-modifier. To this end, we build PoMo, a post-modifier dataset created automatically from news articles reflecting a journalistic need for incorporating entity information that is relevant to a particular news event. PoMo consists of more than 231K sentences with post-modifiers and associated facts extracted from Wikidata for around 57K unique entities. We use crowdsourcing to show that modeling contextual relevance is necessary for accurate post-modifier generation. We adapt a number of existing generation approaches as baselines for this dataset. Our results show there is large room for improvement in terms of both identifying relevant facts to include (knowing which claims are relevant gives a {\textgreater}20{\%} improvement in BLEU score), and generating appropriate post-modifier text for the context (providing relevant claims is not sufficient for accurate generation). We conduct an error analysis that suggests promising directions for future research.
Lexically-constrained sequence decoding allows for explicit positive or negative phrase-based constraints to be placed on target output strings in generation tasks such as machine translation or monolingual text rewriting. We describe vectorized dynamic beam allocation, which extends work in lexically-constrained decoding to work with batching, leading to a five-fold improvement in throughput when working with positive constraints. Faster decoding enables faster exploration of constraint strategies: we illustrate this via data augmentation experiments with a monolingual rewriter applied to the tasks of natural language inference, question answering and machine translation, showing improvements in all three.
In this paper, we propose an effective deep learning framework for inducing courteous behavior in customer care responses. The interaction between a customer and the customer care representative contributes substantially to the overall customer experience. Thus it is imperative for customer care agents and chatbots engaging with humans to be personal, cordial and emphatic to ensure customer satisfaction and retention. Our system aims at automatically transforming neutral customer care responses into courteous replies. Along with stylistic transfer (of courtesy), our system ensures that responses are coherent with the conversation history, and generates courteous expressions consistent with the emotional state of the customer. Our technique is based on a reinforced pointer-generator model for the sequence to sequence task. The model is also conditioned on a hierarchically encoded and emotionally aware conversational context. We use real interactions on Twitter between customer care professionals and aggrieved customers to create a large conversational dataset having both forms of agent responses: {`}generic{'} and {`}courteous{'}. We perform quantitative and qualitative analyses on established and task-specific metrics, both automatic and human evaluation based. Our evaluation shows that the proposed models can generate emotionally-appropriate courteous expressions while preserving the content. Experimental results also prove that our proposed approach performs better than the baseline models.
Metaphor generation attempts to replicate human creativity with language, which is an attractive but challengeable text generation task. Previous efforts mainly focus on template-based or rule-based methods and result in a lack of linguistic subtlety. In order to create novel metaphors, we propose a neural approach to metaphor generation and explore the shared inferential structure of a metaphorical usage and a literal usage of a verb. Our approach does not require any manually annotated metaphors for training. We extract the metaphorically used verbs with their metaphorical senses in an unsupervised way and train a neural language model from wiki corpus. Then we generate metaphors conveying the assigned metaphorical senses with an improved decoding algorithm. Automatic metrics and human evaluations demonstrate that our approach can generate metaphors with good readability and creativity.
Linking pronominal expressions to the correct references requires, in many cases, better analysis of the contextual information and external knowledge. In this paper, we propose a two-layer model for pronoun coreference resolution that leverages both context and external knowledge, where a knowledge attention mechanism is designed to ensure the model leveraging the appropriate source of external knowledge based on different context. Experimental results demonstrate the validity and effectiveness of our model, where it outperforms state-of-the-art models by a large margin.
Commonsense reasoning is fundamental to natural language understanding. While traditional methods rely heavily on human-crafted features and knowledge bases, we explore learning commonsense knowledge from a large amount of raw text via unsupervised learning. We propose two neural network models based on the Deep Structured Semantic Models (DSSM) framework to tackle two classic commonsense reasoning tasks, Winograd Schema challenges (WSC) and Pronoun Disambiguation (PDP). Evaluation shows that the proposed models effectively capture contextual information in the sentence and co-reference information between pronouns and nouns, and achieve significant improvement over previous state-of-the-art approaches.
Pronouns are often dropped in Chinese sentences, and this happens more frequently in conversational genres as their referents can be easily understood from context. Recovering dropped pronouns is essential to applications such as Information Extraction where the referents of these dropped pronouns need to be resolved, or Machine Translation when Chinese is the source language. In this work, we present a novel end-to-end neural network model to recover dropped pronouns in conversational data. Our model is based on a structured attention mechanism that models the referents of dropped pronouns utilizing both sentence-level and word-level information. Results on three different conversational genres show that our approach achieves a significant improvement over the current state of the art.
Semantic representations in the form of directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) have been introduced in recent years, and to model them, we need probabilistic models of DAGs. One model that has attracted some attention is the DAG automaton, but it has not been studied as a probabilistic model. We show that some DAG automata cannot be made into useful probabilistic models by the nearly universal strategy of assigning weights to transitions. The problem affects single-rooted, multi-rooted, and unbounded-degree variants of DAG automata, and appears to be pervasive. It does not affect planar variants, but these are problematic for other reasons.
The use of subword-level information (e.g., characters, character n-grams, morphemes) has become ubiquitous in modern word representation learning. Its importance is attested especially for morphologically rich languages which generate a large number of rare words. Despite a steadily increasing interest in such subword-informed word representations, their systematic comparative analysis across typologically diverse languages and different tasks is still missing. In this work, we deliver such a study focusing on the variation of two crucial components required for subword-level integration into word representation models: 1) segmentation of words into subword units, and 2) subword composition functions to obtain final word representations. We propose a general framework for learning subword-informed word representations that allows for easy experimentation with different segmentation and composition components, also including more advanced techniques based on position embeddings and self-attention. Using the unified framework, we run experiments over a large number of subword-informed word representation configurations (60 in total) on 3 tasks (general and rare word similarity, dependency parsing, fine-grained entity typing) for 5 languages representing 3 language types. Our main results clearly indicate that there is no {``}one-size-fits-all{''} configuration, as performance is both language- and task-dependent. We also show that configurations based on unsupervised segmentation (e.g., BPE, Morfessor) are sometimes comparable to or even outperform the ones based on supervised word segmentation.
Pre-trained word vectors are ubiquitous in Natural Language Processing applications. In this paper, we show how training word embeddings jointly with bigram and even trigram embeddings, results in improved unigram embeddings. We claim that training word embeddings along with higher n-gram embeddings helps in the removal of the contextual information from the unigrams, resulting in better stand-alone word embeddings. We empirically show the validity of our hypothesis by outperforming other competing word representation models by a significant margin on a wide variety of tasks. We make our models publicly available.
Leveraging domain knowledge is an effective strategy for enhancing the quality of inferred low-dimensional representations of documents by topic models. In this paper, we develop \textit{topic modeling with knowledge graph embedding} (TMKGE), a Bayesian nonparametric model to employ knowledge graph (KG) embedding in the context of topic modeling, for extracting more coherent topics. Specifically, we build a hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) based model to flexibly borrow information from KG to improve the interpretability of topics. An efficient online variational inference method based on a stick-breaking construction of HDP is developed for TMKGE, making TMKGE suitable for large document corpora and KGs. Experiments on three public datasets illustrate the superior performance of TMKGE in terms of topic coherence and document classification accuracy, compared to state-of-the-art topic modeling methods.
A large body of research into semantic textual similarity has focused on constructing state-of-the-art embeddings using sophisticated modelling, careful choice of learning signals and many clever tricks. By contrast, little attention has been devoted to similarity measures between these embeddings, with cosine similarity being used unquestionably in the majority of cases. In this work, we illustrate that for all common word vectors, cosine similarity is essentially equivalent to the Pearson correlation coefficient, which provides some justification for its use. We thoroughly characterise cases where Pearson correlation (and thus cosine similarity) is unfit as similarity measure. Importantly, we show that Pearson correlation is appropriate for some word vectors but not others. When it is not appropriate, we illustrate how common non-parametric rank correlation coefficients can be used instead to significantly improve performance. We support our analysis with a series of evaluations on word-level and sentence-level semantic textual similarity benchmarks. On the latter, we show that even the simplest averaged word vectors compared by rank correlation easily rival the strongest deep representations compared by cosine similarity.
The task of Natural Language Inference (NLI) is widely modeled as supervised sentence pair classification. While there has been a lot of work recently on generating explanations of the predictions of classifiers on a single piece of text, there have been no attempts to generate explanations of classifiers operating on pairs of sentences. In this paper, we show that it is possible to generate token-level explanations for NLI without the need for training data explicitly annotated for this purpose. We use a simple LSTM architecture and evaluate both LIME and Anchor explanations for this task. We compare these to a Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) method that uses thresholded attention make token-level predictions. The approach we present in this paper is a novel extension of zero-shot single-sentence tagging to sentence pairs for NLI. We conduct our experiments on the well-studied SNLI dataset that was recently augmented with manually annotation of the tokens that explain the entailment relation. We find that our white-box MIL-based method, while orders of magnitude faster, does not reach the same accuracy as the black-box methods.
We consider the problem of learning distributed representations for entities and relations of multi-relational data so as to predict missing links therein. Convolutional neural networks have recently shown their superiority for this problem, bringing increased model expressiveness while remaining parameter efficient. Despite the success, previous convolution designs fail to model full interactions between input entities and relations, which potentially limits the performance of link prediction. In this work we introduce ConvR, an adaptive convolutional network designed to maximize entity-relation interactions in a convolutional fashion. ConvR adaptively constructs convolution filters from relation representations, and applies these filters across entity representations to generate convolutional features. As such, ConvR enables rich interactions between entity and relation representations at diverse regions, and all the convolutional features generated will be able to capture such interactions. We evaluate ConvR on multiple benchmark datasets. Experimental results show that: (1) ConvR performs substantially better than competitive baselines in almost all the metrics and on all the datasets; (2) Compared with state-of-the-art convolutional models, ConvR is not only more effective but also more efficient. It offers a 7{\%} increase in MRR and a 6{\%} increase in Hits@10, while saving 12{\%} in parameter storage.
Knowledge graphs have been developed rapidly in recent years and shown their usefulness for many artificial intelligence tasks. However, knowledge graphs often have lots of missing facts. To solve this problem, many knowledge graph embedding models to populate knowledge graphs have been developed and have shown outstanding performance these days. However, knowledge graph embedding models are so called-black box. Hence, we actually does not know how information of a knowledge graph is processed and the models are hard to interpret. In this paper, we utilize graph patterns in a knowledge graph to overcome such problems. Our proposed model, graph pattern entity ranking Model (GRank), constructs an entity ranking system for each graph pattern and evaluate them using a measure for a ranking system. By doing so, we can find helpful graph patterns for predicting facts. Then we conduct the link prediction tasks on standard data sets to evaluate GRank. We show our approach outperforms other state-of-the-art approaches such as ComplEx and TorusE on standard metrics such as HITS@n and MRR. Moreover, This model is easily interpretable because output facts are described by graph patterns.
Modern weakly supervised methods for event detection (ED) avoid time-consuming human annotation and achieve promising results by learning from auto-labeled data. However, these methods typically rely on sophisticated pre-defined rules as well as existing instances in knowledge bases for automatic annotation and thus suffer from low coverage, topic bias, and data noise. To address these issues, we build a large event-related candidate set with good coverage and then apply an adversarial training mechanism to iteratively identify those informative instances from the candidate set and filter out those noisy ones. The experiments on two real-world datasets show that our candidate selection and adversarial training can cooperate together to obtain more diverse and accurate training data for ED, and significantly outperform the state-of-the-art methods in various weakly supervised scenarios. The datasets and source code can be obtained from https://github.com/thunlp/Adv-ED.
Extreme classification is a classification task on an extremely large number of labels (tags). User generated labels for any type of online data can be sparing per individual user but intractably large among all users. It would be useful to automatically select a smaller, standard set of labels to represent the whole label set. We can then solve efficiently the problem of multi-label learning with an intractably large number of interdependent labels, such as automatic tagging of Wikipedia pages. We propose a submodular maximization framework with linear cost to find informative labels which are most relevant to other labels yet least redundant with each other. A simple prediction model can then be trained on this label subset. Our framework includes both label-label and label-feature dependencies, which aims to find the labels with the most representation and prediction ability. In addition, to avoid information loss, we extract and predict outlier labels with weak dependency on other labels. We apply our model to four standard natural language data sets including Bibsonomy entries with users assigned tags, web pages with user assigned tags, legal texts with EUROVOC descriptors(A topic hierarchy with almost 4000 categories regarding different aspects of European law) and Wikipedia pages with tags from social bookmarking as well as news videos for automated label detection from a lexicon of semantic concepts. Experimental results show that our proposed approach improves label prediction quality, in terms of precision and nDCG, by 3{\%} to 5{\%} in three of the 5 tasks and is competitive in the others, even with a simple linear prediction model. An ablation study shows how different data sets benefit from different aspects of our model, with all aspects contributing substantially to at least one data set.
Distant supervision (DS) is an important paradigm for automatically extracting relations. It utilizes existing knowledge base to collect examples for the relation we intend to extract, and then uses these examples to automatically generate the training data. However, the examples collected can be very noisy, and pose significant challenge for obtaining high quality labels. Previous work has made remarkable progress in predicting the relation from distant supervision, but typically ignores the temporal relations among those supervising instances. This paper formulates the problem of relation extraction with temporal reasoning and proposes a solution to predict whether two given entities participate in a relation at a given time spot. For this purpose, we construct a dataset called WIKI-TIME which additionally includes the valid period of a certain relation of two entities in the knowledge base. We propose a novel neural model to incorporate both the temporal information encoding and sequential reasoning. The experimental results show that, compared with the best of existing models, our model achieves better performance in both WIKI-TIME dataset and the well-studied NYT-10 dataset.
Insufficient or even unavailable training data of emerging classes is a big challenge of many classification tasks, including text classification. Recognising text documents of classes that have never been seen in the learning stage, so-called zero-shot text classification, is therefore difficult and only limited previous works tackled this problem. In this paper, we propose a two-phase framework together with data augmentation and feature augmentation to solve this problem. Four kinds of semantic knowledge (word embeddings, class descriptions, class hierarchy, and a general knowledge graph) are incorporated into the proposed framework to deal with instances of unseen classes effectively. Experimental results show that each and the combination of the two phases achieve the best overall accuracy compared with baselines and recent approaches in classifying real-world texts under the zero-shot scenario.
A standard word embedding algorithm, such as word2vec and glove, makes a strong assumption that words are likely to be semantically related only if they co-occur locally within a window of fixed size. However, this strong assumption may not capture the semantic association between words that co-occur frequently but non-locally within documents. In this paper, we propose a graph-based word embedding method, named {`}word-node2vec{'}. By relaxing the strong constraint of locality, our method is able to capture both the local and non-local co-occurrences. Word-node2vec constructs a graph where every node represents a word and an edge between two nodes represents a combination of both local (e.g. word2vec) and document-level co-occurrences. Our experiments show that word-node2vec outperforms word2vec and glove on a range of different tasks, such as predicting word-pair similarity, word analogy and concept categorization.
In traditional Distributional Semantic Models (DSMs) the multiple senses of a polysemous word are conflated into a single vector space representation. In this work, we propose a DSM that learns multiple distributional representations of a word based on different topics. First, a separate DSM is trained for each topic and then each of the topic-based DSMs is aligned to a common vector space. Our unsupervised mapping approach is motivated by the hypothesis that words preserving their relative distances in different topic semantic sub-spaces constitute robust semantic anchors that define the mappings between them. Aligned cross-topic representations achieve state-of-the-art results for the task of contextual word similarity. Furthermore, evaluation on NLP downstream tasks shows that multiple topic-based embeddings outperform single-prototype models.
Recent work has attempted to enhance vector space representations using information from structured semantic resources. This process, dubbed retrofitting (Faruqui et al., 2015), has yielded improvements in word similarity performance. Research has largely focused on the retrofitting algorithm, or on the kind of structured semantic resources used, but little research has explored why some resources perform better than others. We conducted a fine-grained analysis of the original retrofitting process, and found that the utility of different lexical resources for retrofitting depends on two factors: the coverage of the resource and the evaluation metric. Our assessment suggests that the common practice of using correlation measures to evaluate increases in performance against full word similarity benchmarks 1) obscures the benefits offered by smaller resources, and 2) overlooks incremental gains in word similarity performance. We propose root-mean-square error (RMSE) as an alternative evaluation metric, and demonstrate that correlation measures and RMSE sometimes yield opposite conclusions concerning the efficacy of retrofitting. This point is illustrated by word vectors retrofitted with novel treatments of the FrameNet data (Fillmore and Baker, 2010).
Contextual word representations derived from large-scale neural language models are successful across a diverse set of NLP tasks, suggesting that they encode useful and transferable features of language. To shed light on the linguistic knowledge they capture, we study the representations produced by several recent pretrained contextualizers (variants of ELMo, the OpenAI transformer language model, and BERT) with a suite of sixteen diverse probing tasks. We find that linear models trained on top of frozen contextual representations are competitive with state-of-the-art task-specific models in many cases, but fail on tasks requiring fine-grained linguistic knowledge (e.g., conjunct identification). To investigate the transferability of contextual word representations, we quantify differences in the transferability of individual layers within contextualizers, especially between recurrent neural networks (RNNs) and transformers. For instance, higher layers of RNNs are more task-specific, while transformer layers do not exhibit the same monotonic trend. In addition, to better understand what makes contextual word representations transferable, we compare language model pretraining with eleven supervised pretraining tasks. For any given task, pretraining on a closely related task yields better performance than language model pretraining (which is better on average) when the pretraining dataset is fixed. However, language model pretraining on more data gives the best results.
We address part-of-speech (POS) induction by maximizing the mutual information between the induced label and its context. We focus on two training objectives that are amenable to stochastic gradient descent (SGD): a novel generalization of the classical Brown clustering objective and a recently proposed variational lower bound. While both objectives are subject to noise in gradient updates, we show through analysis and experiments that the variational lower bound is robust whereas the generalized Brown objective is vulnerable. We obtain strong performance on a multitude of datasets and languages with a simple architecture that encodes morphology and context.
Recurrent neural network grammars (RNNG) are generative models of language which jointly model syntax and surface structure by incrementally generating a syntax tree and sentence in a top-down, left-to-right order. Supervised RNNGs achieve strong language modeling and parsing performance, but require an annotated corpus of parse trees. In this work, we experiment with unsupervised learning of RNNGs. Since directly marginalizing over the space of latent trees is intractable, we instead apply amortized variational inference. To maximize the evidence lower bound, we develop an inference network parameterized as a neural CRF constituency parser. On language modeling, unsupervised RNNGs perform as well their supervised counterparts on benchmarks in English and Chinese. On constituency grammar induction, they are competitive with recent neural language models that induce tree structures from words through attention mechanisms.
There has been considerable attention devoted to models that learn to jointly infer an expression{'}s syntactic structure and its semantics. Yet, Nangia and Bowman (2018) has recently shown that the current best systems fail to learn the correct parsing strategy on mathematical expressions generated from a simple context-free grammar. In this work, we present a recursive model inspired by Choi et al. (2018) that reaches near perfect accuracy on this task. Our model is composed of two separated modules for syntax and semantics. They are cooperatively trained with standard continuous and discrete optimisation schemes. Our model does not require any linguistic structure for supervision, and its recursive nature allows for out-of-domain generalisation. Additionally, our approach performs competitively on several natural language tasks, such as Natural Language Inference and Sentiment Analysis.
We introduce the deep inside-outside recursive autoencoder (DIORA), a fully-unsupervised method for discovering syntax that simultaneously learns representations for constituents within the induced tree. Our approach predicts each word in an input sentence conditioned on the rest of the sentence. During training we use dynamic programming to consider all possible binary trees over the sentence, and for inference we use the CKY algorithm to extract the highest scoring parse. DIORA outperforms previously reported results for unsupervised binary constituency parsing on the benchmark WSJ dataset.
Traditional language models are unable to efficiently model entity names observed in text. All but the most popular named entities appear infrequently in text providing insufficient context. Recent efforts have recognized that context can be generalized between entity names that share the same type (e.g., person or location) and have equipped language models with an access to external knowledge base (KB). Our Knowledge-Augmented Language Model (KALM) continues this line of work by augmenting a traditional model with a KB. Unlike previous methods, however, we train with an end-to-end predictive objective optimizing the perplexity of text. We do not require any additional information such as named entity tags. In addition to improving language modeling performance, KALM learns to recognize named entities in an entirely unsupervised way by using entity type information latent in the model. On a Named Entity Recognition (NER) task, KALM achieves performance comparable with state-of-the-art supervised models. Our work demonstrates that named entities (and possibly other types of world knowledge) can be modeled successfully using predictive learning and training on large corpora of text without any additional information.
Syntax has been demonstrated highly effective in neural machine translation (NMT). Previous NMT models integrate syntax by representing 1-best tree outputs from a well-trained parsing system, e.g., the representative Tree-RNN and Tree-Linearization methods, which may suffer from error propagation. In this work, we propose a novel method to integrate source-side syntax implicitly for NMT. The basic idea is to use the intermediate hidden representations of a well-trained end-to-end dependency parser, which are referred to as syntax-aware word representations (SAWRs). Then, we simply concatenate such SAWRs with ordinary word embeddings to enhance basic NMT models. The method can be straightforwardly integrated into the widely-used sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) NMT models. We start with a representative RNN-based Seq2Seq baseline system, and test the effectiveness of our proposed method on two benchmark datasets of the Chinese-English and English-Vietnamese translation tasks, respectively. Experimental results show that the proposed approach is able to bring significant BLEU score improvements on the two datasets compared with the baseline, 1.74 points for Chinese-English translation and 0.80 point for English-Vietnamese translation, respectively. In addition, the approach also outperforms the explicit Tree-RNN and Tree-Linearization methods.
Current state-of-the-art NMT systems use large neural networks that are not only slow to train, but also often require many heuristics and optimization tricks, such as specialized learning rate schedules and large batch sizes. This is undesirable as it requires extensive hyperparameter tuning. In this paper, we propose a curriculum learning framework for NMT that reduces training time, reduces the need for specialized heuristics or large batch sizes, and results in overall better performance. Our framework consists of a principled way of deciding which training samples are shown to the model at different times during training, based on the estimated difficulty of a sample and the current competence of the model. Filtering training samples in this manner prevents the model from getting stuck in bad local optima, making it converge faster and reach a better solution than the common approach of uniformly sampling training examples. Furthermore, the proposed method can be easily applied to existing NMT models by simply modifying their input data pipelines. We show that our framework can help improve the training time and the performance of both recurrent neural network models and Transformers, achieving up to a 70{\%} decrease in training time, while at the same time obtaining accuracy improvements of up to 2.2 BLEU.
The overreliance on large parallel corpora significantly limits the applicability of machine translation systems to the majority of language pairs. Back-translation has been dominantly used in previous approaches for unsupervised neural machine translation, where pseudo sentence pairs are generated to train the models with a reconstruction loss. However, the pseudo sentences are usually of low quality as translation errors accumulate during training. To avoid this fundamental issue, we propose an alternative but more effective approach, extract-edit, to extract and then edit real sentences from the target monolingual corpora. Furthermore, we introduce a comparative translation loss to evaluate the translated target sentences and thus train the unsupervised translation systems. Experiments show that the proposed approach consistently outperforms the previous state-of-the-art unsupervised machine translation systems across two benchmarks (English-French and English-German) and two low-resource language pairs (English-Romanian and English-Russian) by more than 2 (up to 3.63) BLEU points.
Generalization and reliability of multilingual translation often highly depend on the amount of available parallel data for each language pair of interest. In this paper, we focus on zero-shot generalization{---}a challenging setup that tests models on translation directions they have not been optimized for at training time. To solve the problem, we (i) reformulate multilingual translation as probabilistic inference, (ii) define the notion of zero-shot consistency and show why standard training often results in models unsuitable for zero-shot tasks, and (iii) introduce a consistent agreement-based training method that encourages the model to produce equivalent translations of parallel sentences in auxiliary languages. We test our multilingual NMT models on multiple public zero-shot translation benchmarks (IWSLT17, UN corpus, Europarl) and show that agreement-based learning often results in 2-3 BLEU zero-shot improvement over strong baselines without any loss in performance on supervised translation directions.
Recently, the Transformer model that is based solely on attention mechanisms, has advanced the state-of-the-art on various machine translation tasks. However, recent studies reveal that the lack of recurrence modeling hinders its further improvement of translation capacity. In response to this problem, we propose to directly model recurrence for Transformer with an additional recurrence encoder. In addition to the standard recurrent neural network, we introduce a novel attentive recurrent network to leverage the strengths of both attention models and recurrent networks. Experimental results on the widely-used WMT14 English⇒German and WMT17 Chinese⇒English translation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Our studies also reveal that the proposed model benefits from a short-cut that bridges the source and target sequences with a single recurrent layer, which outperforms its deep counterpart.
Defining action spaces for conversational agents and optimizing their decision-making process with reinforcement learning is an enduring challenge. Common practice has been to use handcrafted dialog acts, or the output vocabulary, e.g. in neural encoder decoders, as the action spaces. Both have their own limitations. This paper proposes a novel latent action framework that treats the action spaces of an end-to-end dialog agent as latent variables and develops unsupervised methods in order to induce its own action space from the data. Comprehensive experiments are conducted examining both continuous and discrete action types and two different optimization methods based on stochastic variational inference. Results show that the proposed latent actions achieve superior empirical performance improvement over previous word-level policy gradient methods on both DealOrNoDeal and MultiWoz dialogs. Our detailed analysis also provides insights about various latent variable approaches for policy learning and can serve as a foundation for developing better latent actions in future research.
Traditional generative dialogue models generate responses solely from input queries. Such information is insufficient for generating a specific response since a certain query could be answered in multiple ways. Recently, researchers have attempted to fill the information gap by exploiting information retrieval techniques. For a given query, similar dialogues are retrieved from the entire training data and considered as an additional knowledge source. While the use of retrieval may harvest extensive information, the generative models could be overwhelmed, leading to unsatisfactory performance. In this paper, we propose a new framework which exploits retrieval results via a skeleton-to-response paradigm. At first, a skeleton is extracted from the retrieved dialogues. Then, both the generated skeleton and the original query are used for response generation via a novel response generator. Experimental results show that our approach significantly improves the informativeness of the generated responses
Although recent neural conversation models have shown great potential, they often generate bland and generic responses. While various approaches have been explored to diversify the output of the conversation model, the improvement often comes at the cost of decreased relevance. In this paper, we propose a SpaceFusion model to jointly optimize diversity and relevance that essentially fuses the latent space of a sequence-to-sequence model and that of an autoencoder model by leveraging novel regularization terms. As a result, our approach induces a latent space in which the distance and direction from the predicted response vector roughly match the relevance and diversity, respectively. This property also lends itself well to an intuitive visualization of the latent space. Both automatic and human evaluation results demonstrate that the proposed approach brings significant improvement compared to strong baselines in both diversity and relevance.
The Knowledge Base (KB) used for real-world applications, such as booking a movie or restaurant reservation, keeps changing over time. End-to-end neural networks trained for these task-oriented dialogs are expected to be immune to any changes in the KB. However, existing approaches breakdown when asked to handle such changes. We propose an encoder-decoder architecture (BoSsNet) with a novel Bag-of-Sequences (BoSs) memory, which facilitates the disentangled learning of the response{'}s language model and its knowledge incorporation. Consequently, the KB can be modified with new knowledge without a drop in interpretability. We find that BoSsNeT outperforms state-of-the-art models, with considerable improvements ({\textgreater}10{\%}) on bAbI OOV test sets and other human-human datasets. We also systematically modify existing datasets to measure disentanglement and show BoSsNeT to be robust to KB modifications.
Neural networks equipped with self-attention have parallelizable computation, light-weight structure, and the ability to capture both long-range and local dependencies. Further, their expressive power and performance can be boosted by using a vector to measure pairwise dependency, but this requires to expand the alignment matrix to a tensor, which results in memory and computation bottlenecks. In this paper, we propose a novel attention mechanism called {``}Multi-mask Tensorized Self-Attention{''} (MTSA), which is as fast and as memory-efficient as a CNN, but significantly outperforms previous CNN-/RNN-/attention-based models. MTSA 1) captures both pairwise (token2token) and global (source2token) dependencies by a novel compatibility function composed of dot-product and additive attentions, 2) uses a tensor to represent the feature-wise alignment scores for better expressive power but only requires parallelizable matrix multiplications, and 3) combines multi-head with multi-dimensional attentions, and applies a distinct positional mask to each head (subspace), so the memory and computation can be distributed to multiple heads, each with sequential information encoded independently. The experiments show that a CNN/RNN-free model based on MTSA achieves state-of-the-art or competitive performance on nine NLP benchmarks with compelling memory- and time-efficiency.
By design, word embeddings are unable to model the dynamic nature of words{'} semantics, i.e., the property of words to correspond to potentially different meanings. To address this limitation, dozens of specialized meaning representation techniques such as sense or contextualized embeddings have been proposed. However, despite the popularity of research on this topic, very few evaluation benchmarks exist that specifically focus on the dynamic semantics of words. In this paper we show that existing models have surpassed the performance ceiling of the standard evaluation dataset for the purpose, i.e., Stanford Contextual Word Similarity, and highlight its shortcomings. To address the lack of a suitable benchmark, we put forward a large-scale Word in Context dataset, called WiC, based on annotations curated by experts, for generic evaluation of context-sensitive representations. WiC is released in https://pilehvar.github.io/wic/.
Peer review is a core element of the scientific process, particularly in conference-centered fields such as ML and NLP. However, only few studies have evaluated its properties empirically. Aiming to fill this gap, we present a corpus that contains over 4k reviews and 1.2k author responses from ACL-2018. We quantitatively and qualitatively assess the corpus. This includes a pilot study on paper weaknesses given by reviewers and on quality of author responses. We then focus on the role of the rebuttal phase, and propose a novel task to predict after-rebuttal (i.e., final) scores from initial reviews and author responses. Although author responses do have a marginal (and statistically significant) influence on the final scores, especially for borderline papers, our results suggest that a reviewer{'}s final score is largely determined by her initial score and the distance to the other reviewers{'} initial scores. In this context, we discuss the conformity bias inherent to peer reviewing, a bias that has largely been overlooked in previous research. We hope our analyses will help better assess the usefulness of the rebuttal phase in NLP conferences.
Literary critics often attempt to uncover meaning in a single work of literature through careful reading and analysis. Applying natural language processing methods to aid in such literary analyses remains a challenge in digital humanities. While most previous work focuses on {``}distant reading{''} by algorithmically discovering high-level patterns from large collections of literary works, here we sharpen the focus of our methods to a single literary theory about Italo Calvino{'}s postmodern novel \textit{Invisible Cities}, which consists of 55 short descriptions of imaginary cities. Calvino has provided a classification of these cities into eleven thematic groups, but literary scholars disagree as to how trustworthy his categorization is. Due to the unique structure of this novel, we can computationally weigh in on this debate: we leverage pretrained contextualized representations to embed each city{'}s description and use unsupervised methods to cluster these embeddings. Additionally, we compare results of our computational approach to similarity judgments generated by human readers. Our work is a first step towards incorporating natural language processing into literary criticism.
Existing paraphrase identification datasets lack sentence pairs that have high lexical overlap without being paraphrases. Models trained on such data fail to distinguish pairs like flights from New York to Florida and flights from Florida to New York. This paper introduces PAWS (Paraphrase Adversaries from Word Scrambling), a new dataset with 108,463 well-formed paraphrase and non-paraphrase pairs with high lexical overlap. Challenging pairs are generated by controlled word swapping and back translation, followed by fluency and paraphrase judgments by human raters. State-of-the-art models trained on existing datasets have dismal performance on PAWS ({\textless}40{\%} accuracy); however, including PAWS training data for these models improves their accuracy to 85{\%} while maintaining performance on existing tasks. In contrast, models that do not capture non-local contextual information fail even with PAWS training examples. As such, PAWS provides an effective instrument for driving further progress on models that better exploit structure, context, and pairwise comparisons.
This study explores the necessity of performing cross-corpora evaluation for grammatical error correction (GEC) models. GEC models have been previously evaluated based on a single commonly applied corpus: the CoNLL-2014 benchmark. However, the evaluation remains incomplete because the task difficulty varies depending on the test corpus and conditions such as the proficiency levels of the writers and essay topics. To overcome this limitation, we evaluate the performance of several GEC models, including NMT-based (LSTM, CNN, and transformer) and an SMT-based model, against various learner corpora (CoNLL-2013, CoNLL-2014, FCE, JFLEG, ICNALE, and KJ). Evaluation results reveal that the models{'} rankings considerably vary depending on the corpus, indicating that single-corpus evaluation is insufficient for GEC models.
Although Transformer has achieved great successes on many NLP tasks, its heavy structure with fully-connected attention connections leads to dependencies on large training data. In this paper, we present Star-Transformer, a lightweight alternative by careful sparsification. To reduce model complexity, we replace the fully-connected structure with a star-shaped topology, in which every two non-adjacent nodes are connected through a shared relay node. Thus, complexity is reduced from quadratic to linear, while preserving the capacity to capture both local composition and long-range dependency. The experiments on four tasks (22 datasets) show that Star-Transformer achieved significant improvements against the standard Transformer for the modestly sized datasets.
We address the problem of speech act recognition (SAR) in asynchronous conversations (forums, emails). Unlike synchronous conversations (e.g., meetings, phone), asynchronous domains lack large labeled datasets to train an effective SAR model. In this paper, we propose methods to effectively leverage abundant unlabeled conversational data and the available labeled data from synchronous domains. We carry out our research in three main steps. First, we introduce a neural architecture based on hierarchical LSTMs and conditional random fields (CRF) for SAR, and show that our method outperforms existing methods when trained on in-domain data only. Second, we improve our initial SAR models by semi-supervised learning in the form of pretrained word embeddings learned from a large unlabeled conversational corpus. Finally, we employ adversarial training to improve the results further by leveraging the labeled data from synchronous domains and by explicitly modeling the distributional shift in two domains.
Advances in the automated detection of offensive Internet postings make this mechanism very attractive to social media companies, who are increasingly under pressure to monitor and action activity on their sites. However, these advances also have important implications as a threat to the fundamental right of free expression. In this article, we analyze which Twitter posts could actually be deemed offenses under German criminal law. German law follows the deductive method of the Roman law tradition based on abstract rules as opposed to the inductive reasoning in Anglo-American common law systems. This allows us to show how legal conclusions can be reached and implemented without relying on existing court decisions. We present a data annotation schema, consisting of a series of binary decisions, for determining whether a specific post would constitute a criminal offense. This schema serves as a step towards an inexpensive creation of a sufficient amount of data for an automated classification. We find that the majority of posts deemed offensive actually do not constitute a criminal offense and still contribute to public discourse. Furthermore, laymen can provide sufficiently reliable data to an expert reference but are, for instance, more lenient in the interpretation of what constitutes a disparaging statement.
We propose a novel attention network for document annotation with user-generated tags. The network is designed according to the human reading and annotation behaviour. Usually, users try to digest the title and obtain a rough idea about the topic first, and then read the content of the document. Present research shows that the title metadata could largely affect the social annotation. To better utilise this information, we design a framework that separates the title from the content of a document and apply a title-guided attention mechanism over each sentence in the content. We also propose two semantic-based loss regularisers that enforce the output of the network to conform to label semantics, i.e. similarity and subsumption. We analyse each part of the proposed system with two real-world open datasets on publication and question annotation. The integrated approach, Joint Multi-label Attention Network (JMAN), significantly outperformed the Bidirectional Gated Recurrent Unit (Bi-GRU) by around 13{\%}-26{\%} and the Hierarchical Attention Network (HAN) by around 4{\%}-12{\%} on both datasets, with around 10{\%}-30{\%} reduction of training time.
The advent of micro-blogging sites has paved the way for researchers to collect and analyze huge volumes of data in recent years. Twitter, being one of the leading social networking sites worldwide, provides a great opportunity to its users for expressing their states of mind via short messages which are called tweets. The urgency of identifying emotions and sentiments conveyed through tweets has led to several research works. It provides a great way to understand human psychology and impose a challenge to researchers to analyze their content easily. In this paper, we propose a novel use of a multi-channel convolutional neural architecture which can effectively use different emotion and sentiment indicators such as hashtags, emoticons and emojis that are present in the tweets and improve the performance of emotion and sentiment identification. We also investigate the incorporation of different lexical features in the neural network model and its effect on the emotion and sentiment identification task. We analyze our model on some standard datasets and compare its effectiveness with existing techniques.
It is very critical to analyze messages shared over social networks for cyber threat intelligence and cyber-crime prevention. In this study, we propose a method that leverages both domain-specific word embeddings and task-specific features to detect cyber security events from tweets. Our model employs a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a long short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network which takes word level meta-embeddings as inputs and incorporates contextual embeddings to classify noisy short text. We collected a new dataset of cyber security related tweets from Twitter and manually annotated a subset of 2K of them. We experimented with this dataset and concluded that the proposed model outperforms both traditional and neural baselines. The results suggest that our method works well for detecting cyber security events from noisy short text.
Adversarial examples are important for understanding the behavior of neural models, and can improve their robustness through adversarial training. Recent work in natural language processing generated adversarial examples by assuming white-box access to the attacked model, and optimizing the input directly against it (Ebrahimi et al., 2018). In this work, we show that the knowledge implicit in the optimization procedure can be distilled into another more efficient neural network. We train a model to emulate the behavior of a white-box attack and show that it generalizes well across examples. Moreover, it reduces adversarial example generation time by 19x-39x. We also show that our approach transfers to a black-box setting, by attacking The Google Perspective API and exposing its vulnerability. Our attack flips the API-predicted label in 42{\%} of the generated examples, while humans maintain high-accuracy in predicting the gold label.
Breaking cybersecurity events are shared across a range of websites, including security blogs (FireEye, Kaspersky, etc.), in addition to social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. In this paper, we investigate methods to analyze the severity of cybersecurity threats based on the language that is used to describe them online. A corpus of 6,000 tweets describing software vulnerabilities is annotated with authors{'} opinions toward their severity. We show that our corpus supports the development of automatic classifiers with high precision for this task. Furthermore, we demonstrate the value of analyzing users{'} opinions about the severity of threats reported online as an early indicator of important software vulnerabilities. We present a simple, yet effective method for linking software vulnerabilities reported in tweets to Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) in the National Vulnerability Database (NVD). Using our predicted severity scores, we show that it is possible to achieve a Precision@50 of 0.86 when forecasting high severity vulnerabilities, significantly outperforming a baseline that is based on tweet volume. Finally we show how reports of severe vulnerabilities online are predictive of real-world exploits.
Deep-learning-based models have been successfully applied to the problem of detecting fake news on social media. While the correlations among news articles have been shown to be effective cues for online news analysis, existing deep-learning-based methods often ignore this information and only consider each news article individually. To overcome this limitation, we develop a graph-theoretic method that inherits the power of deep learning while at the same time utilizing the correlations among the articles. We formulate fake news detection as an inference problem in a Markov random field (MRF) which can be solved by the iterative mean-field algorithm. We then unfold the mean-field algorithm into hidden layers that are composed of common neural network operations. By integrating these hidden layers on top of a deep network, which produces the MRF potentials, we obtain our deep MRF model for fake news detection. Experimental results on well-known datasets show that the proposed model improves upon various state-of-the-art models.
In online discussion fora, speakers often make arguments for or against something, say birth control, by highlighting certain aspects of the topic. In social science, this is referred to as issue framing. In this paper, we introduce a new issue frame annotated corpus of online discussions. We explore to what extent models trained to detect issue frames in newswire and social media can be transferred to the domain of discussion fora, using a combination of multi-task and adversarial training, assuming only unlabeled training data in the target domain.
We present Vector of Locally Aggregated Embeddings (VLAE) for effective and, ultimately, lossless representation of textual content. Our model encodes each input text by effectively identifying and integrating the representations of its semantically-relevant parts. The proposed model generates high quality representation of textual content and improves the classification performance of current state-of-the-art deep averaging networks across several text classification tasks.
As offensive content has become pervasive in social media, there has been much research in identifying potentially offensive messages. However, previous work on this topic did not consider the problem as a whole, but rather focused on detecting very specific types of offensive content, e.g., hate speech, cyberbulling, or cyber-aggression. In contrast, here we target several different kinds of offensive content. In particular, we model the task hierarchically, identifying the type and the target of offensive messages in social media. For this purpose, we complied the Offensive Language Identification Dataset (OLID), a new dataset with tweets annotated for offensive content using a fine-grained three-layer annotation scheme, which we make publicly available. We discuss the main similarities and differences between OLID and pre-existing datasets for hate speech identification, aggression detection, and similar tasks. We further experiment with and we compare the performance of different machine learning models on OLID.
Linguistic features have shown promising applications for detecting various cognitive impairments. To improve detection accuracies, increasing the amount of data or the number of linguistic features have been two applicable approaches. However, acquiring additional clinical data can be expensive, and hand-crafting features is burdensome. In this paper, we take a third approach, proposing Consensus Networks (CNs), a framework to classify after reaching agreements between modalities. We divide linguistic features into non-overlapping subsets according to their modalities, and let neural networks learn low-dimensional representations that agree with each other. These representations are passed into a classifier network. All neural networks are optimized iteratively. In this paper, we also present two methods that improve the performance of CNs. We then present ablation studies to illustrate the effectiveness of modality division. To understand further what happens in CNs, we visualize the representations during training. Overall, using all of the 413 linguistic features, our models significantly outperform traditional classifiers, which are used by the state-of-the-art papers.
Relation extraction (RE) aims to label relations between groups of marked entities in raw text. Most current RE models learn context-aware representations of the target entities that are then used to establish relation between them. This works well for intra-sentence RE, and we call them first-order relations. However, this methodology can sometimes fail to capture complex and long dependencies. To address this, we hypothesize that at times the target entities can be connected via a context token. We refer to such indirect relations as second-order relations, and describe an efficient implementation for computing them. These second-order relation scores are then combined with first-order relation scores to obtain final relation scores. Our empirical results show that the proposed method leads to state-of-the-art performance over two biomedical datasets.
The recent surge of text-based online counseling applications enables us to collect and analyze interactions between counselors and clients. A dataset of those interactions can be used to learn to automatically classify the client utterances into categories that help counselors in diagnosing client status and predicting counseling outcome. With proper anonymization, we collect counselor-client dialogues, define meaningful categories of client utterances with professional counselors, and develop a novel neural network model for classifying the client utterances. The central idea of our model, ConvMFiT, is a pre-trained conversation model which consists of a general language model built from an out-of-domain corpus and two role-specific language models built from unlabeled in-domain dialogues. The classification result shows that ConvMFiT outperforms state-of-the-art comparison models. Further, the attention weights in the learned model confirm that the model finds expected linguistic patterns for each category.
Word vectors and Language Models (LMs) pretrained on a large amount of unlabelled data can dramatically improve various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, the measure and impact of similarity between pretraining data and target task data are left to intuition. We propose three cost-effective measures to quantify different aspects of similarity between source pretraining and target task data. We demonstrate that these measures are good predictors of the usefulness of pretrained models for Named Entity Recognition (NER) over 30 data pairs. Results also suggest that pretrained LMs are more effective and more predictable than pretrained word vectors, but pretrained word vectors are better when pretraining data is dissimilar.
Modern NLP systems require high-quality annotated data. For specialized domains, expert annotations may be prohibitively expensive; the alternative is to rely on crowdsourcing to reduce costs at the risk of introducing noise. In this paper we demonstrate that directly modeling instance difficulty can be used to improve model performance and to route instances to appropriate annotators. Our difficulty prediction model combines two learned representations: a {`}universal{'} encoder trained on out of domain data, and a task-specific encoder. Experiments on a complex biomedical information extraction task using expert and lay annotators show that: (i) simply excluding from the training data instances predicted to be difficult yields a small boost in performance; (ii) using difficulty scores to weight instances during training provides further, consistent gains; (iii) assigning instances predicted to be difficult to domain experts is an effective strategy for task routing. Further, our experiments confirm the expectation that for such domain-specific tasks expert annotations are of much higher quality and preferable to obtain if practical and that augmenting small amounts of expert data with a larger set of lay annotations leads to further improvements in model performance.
Nowadays social media platforms are the most popular way for people to share information, from work issues to personal matters. For example, people with health disorders tend to share their concerns for advice, support or simply to relieve suffering. This provides a great opportunity to proactively detect these users and refer them as soon as possible to professional help. We propose a new representation called Bag of Sub-Emotions (BoSE), which represents social media documents by a set of fine-grained emotions automatically generated using a lexical resource of emotions and subword embeddings. The proposed representation is evaluated in the task of depression detection. The results are encouraging; the usage of fine-grained emotions improved the results from a representation based on the core emotions and obtained competitive results in comparison to state of the art approaches.
Human phenotype-gene relations are fundamental to fully understand the origin of some phenotypic abnormalities and their associated diseases. Biomedical literature is the most comprehensive source of these relations, however, we need Relation Extraction tools to automatically recognize them. Most of these tools require an annotated corpus and to the best of our knowledge, there is no corpus available annotated with human phenotype-gene relations. This paper presents the Phenotype-Gene Relations (PGR) corpus, a silver standard corpus of human phenotype and gene annotations and their relations. The corpus consists of 1712 abstracts, 5676 human phenotype annotations, 13835 gene annotations, and 4283 relations. We generated this corpus using Named-Entity Recognition tools, whose results were partially evaluated by eight curators, obtaining a precision of 87.01{\%}. By using the corpus we were able to obtain promising results with two state-of-the-art deep learning tools, namely 78.05{\%} of precision. The PGR corpus was made publicly available to the research community.
Lemmatization of standard languages is concerned with (i) abstracting over morphological differences and (ii) resolving token-lemma ambiguities of inflected words in order to map them to a dictionary headword. In the present paper we aim to improve lemmatization performance on a set of non-standard historical languages in which the difficulty is increased by an additional aspect (iii): spelling variation due to lacking orthographic standards. We approach lemmatization as a string-transduction task with an Encoder-Decoder architecture which we enrich with sentence information using a hierarchical sentence encoder. We show significant improvements over the state-of-the-art by fine-tuning the sentence encodings to jointly optimize a bidirectional language model loss. Crucially, our architecture does not require POS or morphological annotations, which are not always available for historical corpora. Additionally, we also test the proposed model on a set of typologically diverse standard languages showing results on par or better than a model without fine-tuned sentence representations and previous state-of-the-art systems. Finally, to encourage future work on processing of non-standard varieties, we release the dataset of non-standard languages underlying the present study, which is based on openly accessible sources.
Recent work has shown that contextualized word representations derived from neural machine translation are a viable alternative to such from simple word predictions tasks. This is because the internal understanding that needs to be built in order to be able to translate from one language to another is much more comprehensive. Unfortunately, computational and memory limitations as of present prevent NMT models from using large word vocabularies, and thus alternatives such as subword units (BPE and morphological segmentations) and characters have been used. Here we study the impact of using different kinds of units on the quality of the resulting representations when used to model morphology, syntax, and semantics. We found that while representations derived from subwords are slightly better for modeling syntax, character-based representations are superior for modeling morphology and are also more robust to noisy input.
English verbs have multiple forms. For instance, talk may also appear as talks, talked or talking, depending on the context. The NLP task of lemmatization seeks to map these diverse forms back to a canonical one, known as the lemma. We present a simple joint neural model for lemmatization and morphological tagging that achieves state-of-the-art results on 20 languages from the Universal Dependencies corpora. Our paper describes the model in addition to training and decoding procedures. Error analysis indicates that joint morphological tagging and lemmatization is especially helpful in low-resource lemmatization and languages that display a larger degree of morphological complexity.
In the principles-and-parameters framework, the structural features of languages depend on parameters that may be toggled on or off, with a single parameter often dictating the status of multiple features. The implied covariance between features inspires our probabilisation of this line of linguistic inquiry{---}we develop a generative model of language based on exponential-family matrix factorisation. By modelling all languages and features within the same architecture, we show how structural similarities between languages can be exploited to predict typological features with near-perfect accuracy, outperforming several baselines on the task of predicting held-out features. Furthermore, we show that language embeddings pre-trained on monolingual text allow for generalisation to unobserved languages. This finding has clear practical and also theoretical implications: the results confirm what linguists have hypothesised, i.e. that there are significant correlations between typological features and languages.
Brown and Exchange word clusters have long been successfully used as word representations in Natural Language Processing (NLP) systems. Their success has been attributed to their seeming ability to represent both semantic and syntactic information. Using corpora representing several language families, we test the hypothesis that Brown and Exchange word clusters are highly effective at encoding morphosyntactic information. Our experiments show that word clusters are highly capable at distinguishing Parts of Speech. We show that increases in Average Mutual Information, the clustering algorithms{'} optimization goal, are highly correlated with improvements in encoding of morphosyntactic information. Our results provide empirical evidence that downstream NLP systems addressing tasks dependent on morphosyntactic information can benefit from word cluster features.
We introduce a theoretical analysis of crosslingual transfer in probabilistic topic models. By formulating posterior inference through Gibbs sampling as a process of language transfer, we propose a new measure that quantifies the loss of knowledge across languages during this process. This measure enables us to derive a PAC-Bayesian bound that elucidates the factors affecting model quality, both during training and in downstream applications. We provide experimental validation of the analysis on a diverse set of five languages, and discuss best practices for data collection and model design based on our analysis.
The need for tree structure modelling on top of sequence modelling is an open issue in neural dependency parsing. We investigate the impact of adding a tree layer on top of a sequential model by recursively composing subtree representations (composition) in a transition-based parser that uses features extracted by a BiLSTM. Composition seems superfluous with such a model, suggesting that BiLSTMs capture information about subtrees. We perform model ablations to tease out the conditions under which composition helps. When ablating the backward LSTM, performance drops and composition does not recover much of the gap. When ablating the forward LSTM, performance drops less dramatically and composition recovers a substantial part of the gap, indicating that a forward LSTM and composition capture similar information. We take the backward LSTM to be related to lookahead features and the forward LSTM to the rich history-based features both crucial for transition-based parsers. To capture history-based information, composition is better than a forward LSTM on its own, but it is even better to have a forward LSTM as part of a BiLSTM. We correlate results with language properties, showing that the improved lookahead of a backward LSTM is especially important for head-final languages.
Combinatory categorial grammars are linguistically motivated and useful for semantic parsing, but costly to acquire in a supervised way and difficult to acquire in an unsupervised way. We propose an alternative making use of cross-lingual learning: an existing source-language parser is used together with a parallel corpus to induce a grammar and parsing model for a target language. On the PASCAL benchmark, cross-lingual CCG induction outperforms CCG induction from gold-standard POS tags on 3 out of 8 languages, and unsupervised CCG induction on 6 out of 8 languages. We also show that cross-lingually induced CCGs reflect syntactic properties of the target languages.
Recent approaches to cross-lingual word embedding have generally been based on linear transformations between the sets of embedding vectors in the two languages. In this paper, we propose an approach that instead expresses the two monolingual embedding spaces as probability densities defined by a Gaussian mixture model, and matches the two densities using a method called normalizing flow. The method requires no explicit supervision, and can be learned with only a seed dictionary of words that have identical strings. We argue that this formulation has several intuitively attractive properties, particularly with the respect to improving robustness and generalization to mappings between difficult language pairs or word pairs. On a benchmark data set of bilingual lexicon induction and cross-lingual word similarity, our approach can achieve competitive or superior performance compared to state-of-the-art published results, with particularly strong results being found on etymologically distant and/or morphologically rich languages.
We introduce a novel method for multilingual transfer that utilizes deep contextual embeddings, pretrained in an unsupervised fashion. While contextual embeddings have been shown to yield richer representations of meaning compared to their static counterparts, aligning them poses a challenge due to their dynamic nature. To this end, we construct context-independent variants of the original monolingual spaces and utilize their mapping to derive an alignment for the context-dependent spaces. This mapping readily supports processing of a target language, improving transfer by context-aware embeddings. Our experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach for zero-shot and few-shot learning of dependency parsing. Specifically, our method consistently outperforms the previous state-of-the-art on 6 tested languages, yielding an improvement of 6.8 LAS points on average.
Rumours can spread quickly through social media, and malicious ones can bring about significant economical and social impact. Motivated by this, our paper focuses on the task of rumour detection; particularly, we are interested in understanding how early we can detect them. Although there are numerous studies on rumour detection, few are concerned with the timing of the detection. A successfully-detected malicious rumour can still cause significant damage if it isn{'}t detected in a timely manner, and so timing is crucial. To address this, we present a novel methodology for early rumour detection. Our model treats social media posts (e.g. tweets) as a data stream and integrates reinforcement learning to learn the number minimum number of posts required before we classify an event as a rumour. Experiments on Twitter and Weibo demonstrate that our model identifies rumours earlier than state-of-the-art systems while maintaining a comparable accuracy.
Automatic hashtag annotation plays an important role in content understanding for microblog posts. To date, progress made in this field has been restricted to phrase selection from limited candidates, or word-level hashtag discovery using topic models. Different from previous work considering hashtags to be inseparable, our work is the first effort to annotate hashtags with a novel sequence generation framework via viewing the hashtag as a short sequence of words. Moreover, to address the data sparsity issue in processing short microblog posts, we propose to jointly model the target posts and the conversation contexts initiated by them with bidirectional attention. Extensive experimental results on two large-scale datasets, newly collected from English Twitter and Chinese Weibo, show that our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art models based on classification. Further studies demonstrate our ability to effectively generate rare and even unseen hashtags, which is however not possible for most existing methods.
Visual modifications to text are often used to obfuscate offensive comments in social media (e.g., {``}!d10t{''}) or as a writing style ({``}1337{''} in {``}leet speak{''}), among other scenarios. We consider this as a new type of adversarial attack in NLP, a setting to which humans are very robust, as our experiments with both simple and more difficult visual perturbations demonstrate. We investigate the impact of visual adversarial attacks on current NLP systems on character-, word-, and sentence-level tasks, showing that both neural and non-neural models are, in contrast to humans, extremely sensitive to such attacks, suffering performance decreases of up to 82{\%}. We then explore three shielding methods{---}visual character embeddings, adversarial training, and rule-based recovery{---}which substantially improve the robustness of the models. However, the shielding methods still fall behind performances achieved in non-attack scenarios, which demonstrates the difficulty of dealing with visual attacks.
Controversial posts are those that split the preferences of a community, receiving both significant positive and significant negative feedback. Our inclusion of the word {``}community{''} here is deliberate: what is controversial to some audiences may not be so to others. Using data from several different communities on reddit.com, we predict the ultimate controversiality of posts, leveraging features drawn from both the textual content and the tree structure of the early comments that initiate the discussion. We find that even when only a handful of comments are available, e.g., the first 5 comments made within 15 minutes of the original post, discussion features often add predictive capacity to strong content-and- rate only baselines. Additional experiments on domain transfer suggest that conversation- structure features often generalize to other communities better than conversation-content features do.
Understanding the dynamics of international politics is important yet challenging for civilians. In this work, we explore unsupervised neural models to infer relations between nations from news articles. We extend existing models by incorporating shallow linguistics information and propose a new automatic evaluation metric that aligns relationship dynamics with manually annotated key events. As understanding international relations requires carefully analyzing complex relationships, we conduct in-person human evaluations with three groups of participants. Overall, humans prefer the outputs of our model and give insightful feedback that suggests future directions for human-centered models. Furthermore, our model reveals interesting regional differences in news coverage. For instance, with respect to US-China relations, Singaporean media focus more on {``}strengthening{''} and {``}purchasing{''}, while US media focus more on {``}criticizing{''} and {``}denouncing{''}.
Titles of short sections within long documents support readers by guiding their focus towards relevant passages and by providing anchor-points that help to understand the progression of the document. The positive effects of section titles are even more pronounced when measured on readers with less developed reading abilities, for example in communities with limited labeled text resources. We, therefore, aim to develop techniques to generate section titles in low-resource environments. In particular, we present an extractive pipeline for section title generation by first selecting the most salient sentence and then applying deletion-based compression. Our compression approach is based on a Semi-Markov Conditional Random Field that leverages unsupervised word-representations such as ELMo or BERT, eliminating the need for a complex encoder-decoder architecture. The results show that this approach leads to competitive performance with sequence-to-sequence models with high resources, while strongly outperforming it with low resources. In a human-subject study across subjects with varying reading abilities, we find that our section titles improve the speed of completing comprehension tasks while retaining similar accuracy.
How can we measure whether a natural language generation system produces both high quality and diverse outputs? Human evaluation captures quality but not diversity, as it does not catch models that simply plagiarize from the training set. On the other hand, statistical evaluation (i.e., perplexity) captures diversity but not quality, as models that occasionally emit low quality samples would be insufficiently penalized. In this paper, we propose a unified framework which evaluates both diversity and quality, based on the optimal error rate of predicting whether a sentence is human- or machine-generated. We demonstrate that this error rate can be efficiently estimated by combining human and statistical evaluation, using an evaluation metric which we call HUSE. On summarization and chit-chat dialogue, we show that (i) HUSE detects diversity defects which fool pure human evaluation and that (ii) techniques such as annealing for improving quality actually decrease HUSE due to decreased diversity.
A good conversation requires balance {--} between simplicity and detail; staying on topic and changing it; asking questions and answering them. Although dialogue agents are commonly evaluated via human judgments of overall quality, the relationship between quality and these individual factors is less well-studied. In this work, we examine two controllable neural text generation methods, conditional training and weighted decoding, in order to control four important attributes for chit-chat dialogue: repetition, specificity, response-relatedness and question-asking. We conduct a large-scale human evaluation to measure the effect of these control parameters on multi-turn interactive conversations on the PersonaChat task. We provide a detailed analysis of their relationship to high-level aspects of conversation, and show that by controlling combinations of these variables our models obtain clear improvements in human quality judgments.
Globally normalized neural sequence models are considered superior to their locally normalized equivalents because they may ameliorate the effects of label bias. However, when considering high-capacity neural parametrizations that condition on the whole input sequence, both model classes are theoretically equivalent in terms of the distributions they are capable of representing. Thus, the practical advantage of global normalization in the context of modern neural methods remains unclear. In this paper, we attempt to shed light on this problem through an empirical study. We extend an approach for search-aware training via a continuous relaxation of beam search (Goyal et al., 2017b) in order to enable training of globally normalized recurrent sequence models through simple backpropagation. We then use this technique to conduct an empirical study of the interaction between global normalization, high-capacity encoders, and search-aware optimization. We observe that in the context of inexact search, globally normalized neural models are still more effective than their locally normalized counterparts. Further, since our training approach is sensitive to warm-starting with pre-trained models, we also propose a novel initialization strategy based on self-normalization for pre-training globally normalized models. We perform analysis of our approach on two tasks: CCG supertagging and Machine Translation, and demonstrate the importance of global normalization under different conditions while using search-aware training.
We tackle the problem of generating a pun sentence given a pair of homophones (e.g., {``}died{''} and {``}dyed{''}). Puns are by their very nature statistically anomalous and not amenable to most text generation methods that are supervised by a large corpus. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised approach to pun generation based on lots of raw (unhumorous) text and a surprisal principle. Specifically, we posit that in a pun sentence, there is a strong association between the pun word (e.g., {``}dyed{''}) and the distant context, but a strong association between the alternative word (e.g., {``}died{''}) and the immediate context. We instantiate the surprisal principle in two ways: (i) as a measure based on the ratio of probabilities given by a language model, and (ii) a retrieve-and-edit approach based on words suggested by a skip-gram model. Based on human evaluation, our retrieve-and-edit approach generates puns successfully 30{\%} of the time, doubling the success rate of a neural generation baseline.
In this paper, we conceptualize single-document extractive summarization as a tree induction problem. In contrast to previous approaches which have relied on linguistically motivated document representations to generate summaries, our model induces a multi-root dependency tree while predicting the output summary. Each root node in the tree is a summary sentence, and the subtrees attached to it are sentences whose content relates to or explains the summary sentence. We design a new iterative refinement algorithm: it induces the trees through repeatedly refining the structures predicted by previous iterations. We demonstrate experimentally on two benchmark datasets that our summarizer performs competitively against state-of-the-art methods.
Understanding contrastive opinions is a key component of argument generation. Central to an argument is the claim, a statement that is in dispute. Generating a counter-argument then requires generating a response in contrast to the main claim of the original argument. To generate contrastive claims, we create a corpus of Reddit comment pairs self-labeled by posters using the acronym FTFY (fixed that for you). We then train neural models on these pairs to edit the original claim and produce a new claim with a different view. We demonstrate significant improvement over a sequence-to-sequence baseline in BLEU score and a human evaluation for fluency, coherence, and contrast.
Deception often takes place during everyday conversations, yet conversational dialogues remain largely unexplored by current work on automatic deception detection. In this paper, we address the task of detecting multimodal deceptive cues during conversational dialogues. We introduce a multimodal dataset containing deceptive conversations between participants playing the Box of Lies game from The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, in which they try to guess whether an object description provided by their opponent is deceptive or not. We conduct annotations of multimodal communication behaviors, including facial and linguistic behaviors, and derive several learning features based on these annotations. Initial classification experiments show promising results, performing well above both a random and a human baseline, and reaching up to 69{\%} accuracy in distinguishing deceptive and truthful behaviors.
We present a corpus of anaphoric information (coreference) crowdsourced through a game-with-a-purpose. The corpus, containing annotations for about 108,000 markables, is one of the largest corpora for coreference for English, and one of the largest crowdsourced NLP corpora, but its main feature is the large number of judgments per markable: 20 on average, and over 2.2M in total. This characteristic makes the corpus a unique resource for the study of disagreements on anaphoric interpretation. A second distinctive feature is its rich annotation scheme, covering singletons, expletives, and split-antecedent plurals. Finally, the corpus also comes with labels inferred using a recently proposed probabilistic model of annotation for coreference. The labels are of high quality and make it possible to successfully train a state of the art coreference resolver, including training on singletons and non-referring expressions. The annotation model can also result in more than one label, or no label, being proposed for a markable, thus serving as a baseline method for automatically identifying ambiguous markables. A preliminary analysis of the results is presented.
The study of argumentation and the development of argument mining tools depends on the availability of annotated data, which is challenging to obtain in sufficient quantity and quality. We present a method that breaks down a popular but relatively complex discourse-level argument annotation scheme into a simpler, iterative procedure that can be applied even by untrained annotators. We apply this method in a crowdsourcing setup and report on the reliability of the annotations obtained. The source code for a tool implementing our annotation method, as well as the sample data we obtained (4909 gold-standard annotations across 982 documents), are freely released to the research community. These are intended to serve the needs of qualitative research into argumentation, as well as of data-driven approaches to argument mining.
Learning a shared dialog structure from a set of task-oriented dialogs is an important challenge in computational linguistics. The learned dialog structure can shed light on how to analyze human dialogs, and more importantly contribute to the design and evaluation of dialog systems. We propose to extract dialog structures using a modified VRNN model with discrete latent vectors. Different from existing HMM-based models, our model is based on variational-autoencoder (VAE). Such model is able to capture more dynamics in dialogs beyond the surface forms of the language. We find that qualitatively, our method extracts meaningful dialog structure, and quantitatively, outperforms previous models on the ability to predict unseen data. We further evaluate the model{'}s effectiveness in a downstream task, the dialog system building task. Experiments show that, by integrating the learned dialog structure into the reward function design, the model converges faster and to a better outcome in a reinforcement learning setting.
We aim to comprehensively identify all the event causal relations in a document, both within a sentence and across sentences, which is important for reconstructing pivotal event structures. The challenges we identified are two: 1) event causal relations are sparse among all possible event pairs in a document, in addition, 2) few causal relations are explicitly stated. Both challenges are especially true for identifying causal relations between events across sentences. To address these challenges, we model rich aspects of document-level causal structures for achieving comprehensive causal relation identification. The causal structures include heavy involvements of document-level main events in causal relations as well as several types of fine-grained constraints that capture implications from certain sentential syntactic relations and discourse relations as well as interactions between event causal relations and event coreference relations. Our experimental results show that modeling the global and fine-grained aspects of causal structures using Integer Linear Programming (ILP) greatly improves the performance of causal relation identification, especially in identifying cross-sentence causal relations.
Utilizing reviews to learn user and item representations is useful for recommender systems. Existing methods usually merge all reviews from the same user or for the same item into a long document. However, different reviews, sentences and even words usually have different informativeness for modeling users and items. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical user and item representation model with three-tier attention to learn user and item representations from reviews for recommendation. Our model contains three major components, i.e., a sentence encoder to learn sentence representations from words, a review encoder to learn review representations from sentences, and a user/item encoder to learn user/item representations from reviews. In addition, we incorporate a three-tier attention network in our model to select important words, sentences and reviews. Besides, we combine the user and item representations learned from the reviews with user and item embeddings based on IDs as the final representations to capture the latent factors of individual users and items. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets validate the effectiveness of our approach.
The prevalent way to estimate the similarity of two documents based on word embeddings is to apply the cosine similarity measure to the two centroids obtained from the embedding vectors associated with the words in each document. Motivated by an industrial application from the domain of youth marketing, where this approach produced only mediocre results, we propose an alternative way of combining the word vectors using matrix norms. The evaluation shows superior results for most of the investigated matrix norms in comparison to both the classical cosine measure and several other document similarity estimates.
Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) are a class of spectral clustering techniques that leverage localized convolution filters to perform supervised classification directly on graphical structures. While such methods model nodes{'} local pairwise importance, they lack the capability to model global importance relative to other nodes of the graph. This causes such models to miss critical information in tasks where global ranking is a key component for the task, such as in keyphrase extraction. We address this shortcoming by allowing the proper incorporation of global information into the GCN family of models through the use of scaled node weights. In the context of keyphrase extraction, incorporating global random walk scores obtained from TextRank boosts performance significantly. With our proposed method, we achieve state-of-the-art results, bettering a strong baseline by an absolute 2{\%} increase in F1 score.
The structured output framework provides a helpful tool for learning to rank problems. In this paper, we propose a structured output approach which regards rankings as latent variables. Our approach addresses the complex optimization of Mean Average Precision (MAP) ranking metric. We provide an inference procedure to find the max-violating ranking based on the decomposition of the corresponding loss. The results of our experiments on WikiQA and TREC13 datasets show that our reranking based on structured prediction is a promising research direction.
In relation extraction with distant supervision, noisy labels make it difficult to train quality models. Previous neural models addressed this problem using an attention mechanism that attends to sentences that are likely to express the relations. We improve such models by combining the distant supervision data with an additional directly-supervised data, which we use as supervision for the attention weights. We find that joint training on both types of supervision leads to a better model because it improves the model{'}s ability to identify noisy sentences. In addition, we find that sigmoidal attention weights with max pooling achieves better performance over the commonly used weighted average attention in this setup. Our proposed method achieves a new state-of-the-art result on the widely used FB-NYT dataset.
Stance detection in twitter aims at mining user stances expressed in a tweet towards a single or multiple target entities. To tackle this problem, most of the prior studies have been explored the traditional deep learning models, e.g., LSTM and GRU. However, in compared to these traditional approaches, recently proposed densely connected Bi-LSTM and nested LSTMs architectures effectively address the vanishing-gradient and overfitting problems as well as dealing with long-term dependencies. In this paper, we propose a neural ensemble model that adopts the strengths of these two LSTM variants to learn better long-term dependencies, where each module coupled with an attention mechanism that amplifies the contribution of important elements in the final representation. We also employ a multi-kernel convolution on top of them to extract the higher-level tweet representations. Results of extensive experiments on single and multi-target stance detection datasets show that our proposed method achieves substantial improvement over the current state-of-the-art deep learning based methods.
Beam search optimization (Wiseman and Rush, 2016) resolves many issues in neural machine translation. However, this method lacks principled stopping criteria and does not learn how to stop during training, and the model naturally prefers longer hypotheses during the testing time in practice since they use the raw score instead of the probability-based score. We propose a novel ranking method which enables an optimal beam search stop- ping criteria. We further introduce a structured prediction loss function which penalizes suboptimal finished candidates produced by beam search during training. Experiments of neural machine translation on both synthetic data and real languages (German→English and Chinese→English) demonstrate our pro- posed methods lead to better length and BLEU score.
Recent research has discovered that a shared bilingual word embedding space can be induced by projecting monolingual word embedding spaces from two languages using a self-learning paradigm without any bilingual supervision. However, it has also been shown that for distant language pairs such fully unsupervised self-learning methods are unstable and often get stuck in poor local optima due to reduced isomorphism between starting monolingual spaces. In this work, we propose a new robust framework for learning unsupervised multilingual word embeddings that mitigates the instability issues. We learn a shared multilingual embedding space for a variable number of languages by incrementally adding new languages one by one to the current multilingual space. Through the gradual language addition the method can leverage the interdependencies between the new language and all other languages in the current multilingual space. We find that it is beneficial to project more distant languages later in the iterative process. Our fully unsupervised multilingual embedding spaces yield results that are on par with the state-of-the-art methods in the bilingual lexicon induction (BLI) task, and simultaneously obtain state-of-the-art scores on two downstream tasks: multilingual document classification and multilingual dependency parsing, outperforming even supervised baselines. This finding also accentuates the need to establish evaluation protocols for cross-lingual word embeddings beyond the omnipresent intrinsic BLI task in future work.
We introduce a curriculum learning approach to adapt generic neural machine translation models to a specific domain. Samples are grouped by their similarities to the domain of interest and each group is fed to the training algorithm with a particular schedule. This approach is simple to implement on top of any neural framework or architecture, and consistently outperforms both unadapted and adapted baselines in experiments with two distinct domains and two language pairs.
Modern Machine Translation (MT) systems perform remarkably well on clean, in-domain text. However most of the human generated text, particularly in the realm of social media, is full of typos, slang, dialect, idiolect and other noise which can have a disastrous impact on the accuracy of MT. In this paper we propose methods to enhance the robustness of MT systems by emulating naturally occurring noise in otherwise clean data. Synthesizing noise in this manner we are ultimately able to make a vanilla MT system more resilient to naturally occurring noise, partially mitigating loss in accuracy resulting therefrom.
Neural Networks trained with gradient descent are known to be susceptible to catastrophic forgetting caused by parameter shift during the training process. In the context of Neural Machine Translation (NMT) this results in poor performance on heterogeneous datasets and on sub-tasks like rare phrase translation. On the other hand, non-parametric approaches are immune to forgetting, perfectly complementing the generalization ability of NMT. However, attempts to combine non-parametric or retrieval based approaches with NMT have only been successful on narrow domains, possibly due to over-reliance on sentence level retrieval. We propose a novel n-gram level retrieval approach that relies on local phrase level similarities, allowing us to retrieve neighbors that are useful for translation even when overall sentence similarity is low. We complement this with an expressive neural network, allowing our model to extract information from the noisy retrieved context. We evaluate our Semi-parametric NMT approach on a heterogeneous dataset composed of WMT, IWSLT, JRC-Acquis and OpenSubtitles, and demonstrate gains on all 4 evaluation sets. The Semi-parametric nature of our approach also opens the door for non-parametric domain adaptation, demonstrating strong inference-time adaptation performance on new domains without the need for any parameter updates.
Current predominant neural machine translation (NMT) models often have a deep structure with large amounts of parameters, making these models hard to train and easily suffering from over-fitting. A common practice is to utilize a validation set to evaluate the training process and select the best checkpoint. Average and ensemble techniques on checkpoints can lead to further performance improvement. However, as these methods do not affect the training process, the system performance is restricted to the checkpoints generated in original training procedure. In contrast, we propose an online knowledge distillation method. Our method on-the-fly generates a teacher model from checkpoints, guiding the training process to obtain better performance. Experiments on several datasets and language pairs show steady improvement over a strong self-attention-based baseline system. We also provide analysis on data-limited setting against over-fitting. Furthermore, our method leads to an improvement in a machine reading experiment as well.
Training models to map natural language instructions to programs, given target world supervision only, requires searching for good programs at training time. Search is commonly done using beam search in the space of partial programs or program trees, but as the length of the instructions grows finding a good program becomes difficult. In this work, we propose a search algorithm that uses the target world state, known at training time, to train a critic network that predicts the expected reward of every search state. We then score search states on the beam by interpolating their expected reward with the likelihood of programs represented by the search state. Moreover, we search not in the space of programs but in a more compressed state of program executions, augmented with recent entities and actions. On the SCONE dataset, we show that our algorithm dramatically improves performance on all three domains compared to standard beam search and other baselines.
We propose a new visual grounding task called Visual Query Detection (VQD). In VQD, the task is to localize a \textit{variable} number of objects in an image where the objects are specified in natural language. VQD is related to visual referring expression comprehension, where the task is to localize only \textit{one} object. We propose the first algorithms for VQD, and we evaluate them on both visual referring expression datasets and our new VQDv1 dataset.
Over the last few years, there has been growing interest in learning models for physically grounded language understanding tasks, such as the popular blocks world domain. These works typically view this problem as a single-step process, in which a human operator gives an instruction and an automated agent is evaluated on its ability to execute it. In this paper we take the first step towards increasing the bandwidth of this interaction, and suggest a protocol for including advice, high-level observations about the task, which can help constrain the agent{'}s prediction. We evaluate our approach on the blocks world task, and show that even simple advice can help lead to significant performance improvements. To help reduce the effort involved in supplying the advice, we also explore model self-generated advice which can still improve results.
We present a novel method for mapping unrestricted text to knowledge graph entities by framing the task as a sequence-to-sequence problem. Specifically, given the encoded state of an input text, our decoder directly predicts paths in the knowledge graph, starting from the root and ending at the the target node following hypernym-hyponym relationships. In this way, and in contrast to other text-to-entity mapping systems, our model outputs hierarchically structured predictions that are fully interpretable in the context of the underlying ontology, in an end-to-end manner. We present a proof-of-concept experiment with encouraging results, comparable to those of state-of-the-art systems.
We demonstrate the surprising strength of unimodal baselines in multimodal domains, and make concrete recommendations for best practices in future research. Where existing work often compares against random or majority class baselines, we argue that unimodal approaches better capture and reflect dataset biases and therefore provide an important comparison when assessing the performance of multimodal techniques. We present unimodal ablations on three recent datasets in visual navigation and QA, seeing an up to 29{\%} absolute gain in performance over published baselines.
The task of retrieving clips within videos based on a given natural language query requires cross-modal reasoning over multiple frames. Prior approaches such as sliding window classifiers are inefficient, while text-clip similarity driven ranking-based approaches such as segment proposal networks are far more complicated. In order to select the most relevant video clip corresponding to the given text description, we propose a novel extractive approach that predicts the start and end frames by leveraging cross-modal interactions between the text and video - this removes the need to retrieve and re-rank multiple proposal segments. Using recurrent networks we encode the two modalities into a joint representation which is then used in different variants of start-end frame predictor networks. Through extensive experimentation and ablative analysis, we demonstrate that our simple and elegant approach significantly outperforms state of the art on two datasets and has comparable performance on a third.
Machine learning has shown promise for automatic detection of Alzheimer{'}s disease (AD) through speech; however, efforts are hampered by a scarcity of data, especially in languages other than English. We propose a method to learn a correspondence between independently engineered lexicosyntactic features in two languages, using a large parallel corpus of out-of-domain movie dialogue data. We apply it to dementia detection in Mandarin Chinese, and demonstrate that our method outperforms both unilingual and machine translation-based baselines. This appears to be the first study that transfers feature domains in detecting cognitive decline.
Recent work has shown that visual context improves cross-lingual sense disambiguation for nouns. We extend this line of work to the more challenging task of cross-lingual verb sense disambiguation, introducing the MultiSense dataset of 9,504 images annotated with English, German, and Spanish verbs. Each image in MultiSense is annotated with an English verb and its translation in German or Spanish. We show that cross-lingual verb sense disambiguation models benefit from visual context, compared to unimodal baselines. We also show that the verb sense predicted by our best disambiguation model can improve the results of a text-only machine translation system when used for a multimodal translation task.
Language identification for code-switching (CS), the phenomenon of alternating between two or more languages in conversations, has traditionally been approached under the assumption of a single language per token. However, if at least one language is morphologically rich, a large number of words can be composed of morphemes from more than one language (intra-word CS). In this paper, we extend the language identification task to the subword-level, such that it includes splitting mixed words while tagging each part with a language ID. We further propose a model for this task, which is based on a segmental recurrent neural network. In experiments on a new Spanish{--}Wixarika dataset and on an adapted German{--}Turkish dataset, our proposed model performs slightly better than or roughly on par with our best baseline, respectively. Considering only mixed words, however, it strongly outperforms all baselines.
Current research on spoken language translation (SLT) has to confront with the scarcity of sizeable and publicly available training corpora. This problem hinders the adoption of neural end-to-end approaches, which represent the state of the art in the two parent tasks of SLT: automatic speech recognition and machine translation. To fill this gap, we created MuST-C, a multilingual speech translation corpus whose size and quality will facilitate the training of end-to-end systems for SLT from English into 8 languages. For each target language, MuST-C comprises at least 385 hours of audio recordings from English TED Talks, which are automatically aligned at the sentence level with their manual transcriptions and translations. Together with a description of the corpus creation methodology (scalable to add new data and cover new languages), we provide an empirical verification of its quality and SLT results computed with a state-of-the-art approach on each language direction.
Critical to natural language generation is the production of correctly inflected text. In this paper, we isolate the task of predicting a fully inflected sentence from its partially lemmatized version. Unlike traditional morphological inflection or surface realization, our task input does not provide {``}gold{''} tags that specify what morphological features to realize on each lemmatized word; rather, such features must be inferred from sentential context. We develop a neural hybrid graphical model that explicitly reconstructs morphological features before predicting the inflected forms, and compare this to a system that directly predicts the inflected forms without relying on any morphological annotation. We experiment on several typologically diverse languages from the Universal Dependencies treebanks, showing the utility of incorporating linguistically-motivated latent variables into NLP models.
We present a robust neural abstractive summarization system for cross-lingual summarization. We construct summarization corpora for documents automatically translated from three low-resource languages, Somali, Swahili, and Tagalog, using machine translation and the New York Times summarization corpus. We train three language-specific abstractive summarizers and evaluate on documents originally written in the source languages, as well as on a fourth, unseen language: Arabic. Our systems achieve significantly higher fluency than a standard copy-attention summarizer on automatically translated input documents, as well as comparable content selection.
The explicit use of syntactic information has been proved useful for neural machine translation (NMT). However, previous methods resort to either tree-structured neural networks or long linearized sequences, both of which are inefficient. Neural syntactic distance (NSD) enables us to represent a constituent tree using a sequence whose length is identical to the number of words in the sentence. NSD has been used for constituent parsing, but not in machine translation. We propose five strategies to improve NMT with NSD. Experiments show that it is not trivial to improve NMT with NSD; however, the proposed strategies are shown to improve translation performance of the baseline model (+2.1 (En{--}Ja), +1.3 (Ja{--}En), +1.2 (En{--}Ch), and +1.0 (Ch{--}En) BLEU).
Incremental domain adaptation, in which a system learns from the correct output for each input immediately after making its prediction for that input, can dramatically improve system performance for interactive machine translation. Users of interactive systems are sensitive to the speed of adaptation and how often a system repeats mistakes, despite being corrected. Adaptation is most commonly assessed using corpus-level BLEU- or TER-derived metrics that do not explicitly take adaptation speed into account. We find that these metrics often do not capture immediate adaptation effects, such as zero-shot and one-shot learning of domain-specific lexical items. To this end, we propose new metrics that directly evaluate immediate adaptation performance for machine translation. We use these metrics to choose the most suitable adaptation method from a range of different adaptation techniques for neural machine translation systems.
Despite some empirical success at correcting exposure bias in machine translation, scheduled sampling algorithms suffer from a major drawback: they incorrectly assume that words in the reference translations and in sampled sequences are aligned at each time step. Our new differentiable sampling algorithm addresses this issue by optimizing the probability that the reference can be aligned with the sampled output, based on a soft alignment predicted by the model itself. As a result, the output distribution at each time step is evaluated with respect to the whole predicted sequence. Experiments on IWSLT translation tasks show that our approach improves BLEU compared to maximum likelihood and scheduled sampling baselines. In addition, our approach is simpler to train with no need for sampling schedule and yields models that achieve larger improvements with smaller beam sizes.
We consider the problem of making efficient use of heterogeneous training data in neural machine translation (NMT). Specifically, given a training dataset with a sentence-level feature such as noise, we seek an optimal curriculum, or order for presenting examples to the system during training. Our curriculum framework allows examples to appear an arbitrary number of times, and thus generalizes data weighting, filtering, and fine-tuning schemes. Rather than relying on prior knowledge to design a curriculum, we use reinforcement learning to learn one automatically, jointly with the NMT system, in the course of a single training run. We show that this approach can beat uniform baselines on Paracrawl and WMT English-to-French datasets by +3.4 and +1.3 BLEU respectively. Additionally, we match the performance of strong filtering baselines and hand-designed, state-of-the-art curricula.
Continued training is an effective method for domain adaptation in neural machine translation. However, in-domain gains from adaptation come at the expense of general-domain performance. In this work, we interpret the drop in general-domain performance as catastrophic forgetting of general-domain knowledge. To mitigate it, we adapt Elastic Weight Consolidation (EWC){---}a machine learning method for learning a new task without forgetting previous tasks. Our method retains the majority of general-domain performance lost in continued training without degrading in-domain performance, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art. We also explore the full range of general-domain performance available when some in-domain degradation is acceptable.
We present the first exploration of meaning shift over short periods of time in online communities using distributional representations. We create a small annotated dataset and use it to assess the performance of a standard model for meaning shift detection on short-term meaning shift. We find that the model has problems distinguishing meaning shift from referential phenomena, and propose a measure of contextual variability to remedy this.
We examine the new task of detecting derogatory compounds (e.g. {``}curry muncher{''}). Derogatory compounds are much more difficult to detect than derogatory unigrams (e.g. {``}idiot{''}) since they are more sparsely represented in lexical resources previously found effective for this task (e.g. Wiktionary). We propose an unsupervised classification approach that incorporates linguistic properties of compounds. It mostly depends on a simple distributional representation. We compare our approach against previously established methods proposed for extracting derogatory unigrams.
Collaborative filtering (CF) is a core technique for recommender systems. Traditional CF approaches exploit user-item relations (e.g., clicks, likes, and views) only and hence they suffer from the data sparsity issue. Items are usually associated with unstructured text such as article abstracts and product reviews. We develop a Personalized Neural Embedding (PNE) framework to exploit both interactions and words seamlessly. We learn such embeddings of users, items, and words jointly, and predict user preferences on items based on these learned representations. PNE estimates the probability that a user will like an item by two terms{---}behavior factors and semantic factors. On two real-world datasets, PNE shows better performance than four state-of-the-art baselines in terms of three metrics. We also show that PNE learns meaningful word embeddings by visualization.
A growing number of state-of-the-art transfer learning methods employ language models pretrained on large generic corpora. In this paper we present a conceptually simple and effective transfer learning approach that addresses the problem of catastrophic forgetting. Specifically, we combine the task-specific optimization function with an auxiliary language model objective, which is adjusted during the training process. This preserves language regularities captured by language models, while enabling sufficient adaptation for solving the target task. Our method does not require pretraining or finetuning separate components of the network and we train our models end-to-end in a single step. We present results on a variety of challenging affective and text classification tasks, surpassing well established transfer learning methods with greater level of complexity.
Tweets are short messages that often include specialized language such as hashtags and emojis. In this paper, we present a simple strategy to process emojis: replace them with their natural language description and use pretrained word embeddings as normally done with standard words. We show that this strategy is more effective than using pretrained emoji embeddings for tweet classification. Specifically, we obtain new state-of-the-art results in irony detection and sentiment analysis despite our neural network is simpler than previous proposals.
There exist biases in individual{'}s language use; the same word (e.g., cool) is used for expressing different meanings (e.g., temperature range) or different words (e.g., cloudy, hazy) are used for describing the same meaning. In this study, we propose a method of modeling such personal biases in word meanings (hereafter, semantic variations) with personalized word embeddings obtained by solving a task on subjective text while regarding words used by different individuals as different words. To prevent personalized word embeddings from being contaminated by other irrelevant biases, we solve a task of identifying a review-target (objective output) from a given review. To stabilize the training of this extreme multi-class classification, we perform a multi-task learning with metadata identification. Experimental results with reviews retrieved from RateBeer confirmed that the obtained personalized word embeddings improved the accuracy of sentiment analysis as well as the target task. Analysis of the obtained personalized word embeddings revealed trends in semantic variations related to frequent and adjective words.
In the context of fake news, bias, and propaganda, we study two important but relatively under-explored problems: (i) trustworthiness estimation (on a 3-point scale) and (ii) political ideology detection (left/right bias on a 7-point scale) of entire news outlets, as opposed to evaluating individual articles. In particular, we propose a multi-task ordinal regression framework that models the two problems jointly. This is motivated by the observation that hyper-partisanship is often linked to low trustworthiness, e.g., appealing to emotions rather than sticking to the facts, while center media tend to be generally more impartial and trustworthy. We further use several auxiliary tasks, modeling centrality, hyper-partisanship, as well as left-vs.-right bias on a coarse-grained scale. The evaluation results show sizable performance gains by the joint models over models that target the problems in isolation.
A pun is a form of wordplay for an intended humorous or rhetorical effect, where a word suggests two or more meanings by exploiting polysemy (homographic pun) or phonological similarity to another word (heterographic pun). This paper presents an approach that addresses pun detection and pun location jointly from a sequence labeling perspective. We employ a new tagging scheme such that the model is capable of performing such a joint task, where useful structural information can be properly captured. We show that our proposed model is effective in handling both homographic and heterographic puns. Empirical results on the benchmark datasets demonstrate that our approach can achieve new state-of-the-art results.
We explore the challenge of action prediction from textual descriptions of scenes, a testbed to approximate whether text inference can be used to predict upcoming actions. As a case of study, we consider the world of the Harry Potter fantasy novels and inferring what spell will be cast next given a fragment of a story. Spells act as keywords that abstract actions (e.g. {`}Alohomora{'} to open a door) and denote a response to the environment. This idea is used to automatically build HPAC, a corpus containing 82,836 samples and 85 actions. We then evaluate different baselines. Among the tested models, an LSTM-based approach obtains the best performance for frequent actions and large scene descriptions, but approaches such as logistic regression behave well on infrequent actions.
Peer-review plays a critical role in the scientific writing and publication ecosystem. To assess the efficiency and efficacy of the reviewing process, one essential element is to understand and evaluate the reviews themselves. In this work, we study the content and structure of peer reviews under the argument mining framework, through automatically detecting (1) the argumentative propositions put forward by reviewers, and (2) their types (e.g., evaluating the work or making suggestions for improvement). We first collect 14.2K reviews from major machine learning and natural language processing venues. 400 reviews are annotated with 10,386 propositions and corresponding types of Evaluation, Request, Fact, Reference, or Quote. We then train state-of-the-art proposition segmentation and classification models on the data to evaluate their utilities and identify new challenges for this new domain, motivating future directions for argument mining. Further experiments show that proposition usage varies across venues in amount, type, and topic.
We present a new dataset comprised of 210,532 tokens evenly drawn from 100 different English-language literary texts annotated for ACE entity categories (person, location, geo-political entity, facility, organization, and vehicle). These categories include non-named entities (such as {``}the boy{''}, {``}the kitchen{''}) and nested structure (such as [[the cook]{'}s sister]). In contrast to existing datasets built primarily on news (focused on geo-political entities and organizations), literary texts offer strikingly different distributions of entity categories, with much stronger emphasis on people and description of settings. We present empirical results demonstrating the performance of nested entity recognition models in this domain; training natively on in-domain literary data yields an improvement of over 20 absolute points in F-score (from 45.7 to 68.3), and mitigates a disparate impact in performance for male and female entities present in models trained on news data.
Abuse on the Internet represents a significant societal problem of our time. Previous research on automated abusive language detection in Twitter has shown that community-based profiling of users is a promising technique for this task. However, existing approaches only capture shallow properties of online communities by modeling follower{--}following relationships. In contrast, working with graph convolutional networks (GCNs), we present the first approach that captures not only the structure of online communities but also the linguistic behavior of the users within them. We show that such a heterogeneous graph-structured modeling of communities significantly advances the current state of the art in abusive language detection.
Meaning conflation deficiency is one of the main limiting factors of word representations which, given their widespread use at the core of many NLP systems, can lead to inaccurate semantic understanding of the input text and inevitably hamper the performance. Sense representations target this problem. However, their potential impact has rarely been investigated in downstream NLP applications. Through a set of experiments on a state-of-the-art reverse dictionary system based on neural networks, we show that a simple adjustment aimed at addressing the meaning conflation deficiency can lead to substantial improvements.
Generating from Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) is an underspecified problem, as many syntactic decisions are not specified by the semantic graph. To explicitly account for this variation, we break down generating from AMR into two steps: first generate a syntactic structure, and then generate the surface form. We show that decomposing the generation process this way leads to state-of-the-art single model performance generating from AMR without additional unlabelled data. We also demonstrate that we can generate meaning-preserving syntactic paraphrases of the same AMR graph, as judged by humans.
We present a resource for the task of FrameNet semantic frame disambiguation of over 5,000 word-sentence pairs from the Wikipedia corpus. The annotations were collected using a novel crowdsourcing approach with multiple workers per sentence to capture inter-annotator disagreement. In contrast to the typical approach of attributing the best single frame to each word, we provide a list of frames with disagreement-based scores that express the confidence with which each frame applies to the word. This is based on the idea that inter-annotator disagreement is at least partly caused by ambiguity that is inherent to the text and frames. We have found many examples where the semantics of individual frames overlap sufficiently to make them acceptable alternatives for interpreting a sentence. We have argued that ignoring this ambiguity creates an overly arbitrary target for training and evaluating natural language processing systems - if humans cannot agree, why would we expect the correct answer from a machine to be any different? To process this data we also utilized an expanded lemma-set provided by the Framester system, which merges FN with WordNet to enhance coverage. Our dataset includes annotations of 1,000 sentence-word pairs whose lemmas are not part of FN. Finally we present metrics for evaluating frame disambiguation systems that account for ambiguity.
Several datasets have recently been constructed to expose brittleness in models trained on existing benchmarks. While model performance on these challenge datasets is significantly lower compared to the original benchmark, it is unclear what particular weaknesses they reveal. For example, a challenge dataset may be difficult because it targets phenomena that current models cannot capture, or because it simply exploits blind spots in a model{'}s specific training set. We introduce inoculation by fine-tuning, a new analysis method for studying challenge datasets by exposing models (the metaphorical patient) to a small amount of data from the challenge dataset (a metaphorical pathogen) and assessing how well they can adapt. We apply our method to analyze the NLI {``}stress tests{''} (Naik et al., 2018) and the Adversarial SQuAD dataset (Jia and Liang, 2017). We show that after slight exposure, some of these datasets are no longer challenging, while others remain difficult. Our results indicate that failures on challenge datasets may lead to very different conclusions about models, training datasets, and the challenge datasets themselves.
In this paper, we introduce an embedding model, named CapsE, exploring a capsule network to model relationship triples (subject, relation, object). Our CapsE represents each triple as a 3-column matrix where each column vector represents the embedding of an element in the triple. This 3-column matrix is then fed to a convolution layer where multiple filters are operated to generate different feature maps. These feature maps are reconstructed into corresponding capsules which are then routed to another capsule to produce a continuous vector. The length of this vector is used to measure the plausibility score of the triple. Our proposed CapsE obtains better performance than previous state-of-the-art embedding models for knowledge graph completion on two benchmark datasets WN18RR and FB15k-237, and outperforms strong search personalization baselines on SEARCH17.
For many structured learning tasks, the data annotation process is complex and costly. Existing annotation schemes usually aim at acquiring completely annotated structures, under the common perception that partial structures are of low quality and could hurt the learning process. This paper questions this common perception, motivated by the fact that structures consist of interdependent sets of variables. Thus, given a fixed budget, partly annotating each structure may provide the same level of supervision, while allowing for more structures to be annotated. We provide an information theoretic formulation for this perspective and use it, in the context of three diverse structured learning tasks, to show that learning from partial structures can sometimes outperform learning from complete ones. Our findings may provide important insights into structured data annotation schemes and could support progress in learning protocols for structured tasks.
In Community-based Question Answering system(CQA), Answer Selection(AS) is a critical task, which focuses on finding a suitable answer within a list of candidate answers. For neural network models, the key issue is how to model the representations of QA text pairs and calculate the interactions between them. We propose a Sequential Attention with Keyword Mask model(SAKM) for CQA to imitate human reading behavior. Question and answer text regard each other as context within keyword-mask attention when encoding the representations, and repeat multiple times(hops) in a sequential style. So the QA pairs capture features and information from both question text and answer text, interacting and improving vector representations iteratively through hops. The flexibility of the model allows to extract meaningful keywords from the sentences and enhance diverse mutual information. We perform on answer selection tasks and multi-level answer ranking tasks. Experiment results demonstrate the superiority of our proposed model on community-based QA datasets.
This paper explores the problem of ranking short social media posts with respect to user queries using neural networks. Instead of starting with a complex architecture, we proceed from the bottom up and examine the effectiveness of a simple, word-level Siamese architecture augmented with attention-based mechanisms for capturing semantic {``}soft{''} matches between query and post tokens. Extensive experiments on datasets from the TREC Microblog Tracks show that our simple models not only achieve better effectiveness than existing approaches that are far more complex or exploit a more diverse set of relevance signals, but are also much faster.
The recently released FEVER dataset provided benchmark results on a fact-checking task in which given a factual claim, the system must extract textual evidence (sets of sentences from Wikipedia pages) that support or refute the claim. In this paper, we present a completely task-agnostic pipelined system, AttentiveChecker, consisting of three homogeneous Bi-Directional Attention Flow (BIDAF) networks, which are multi-layer hierarchical networks that represent the context at different levels of granularity. We are the first to apply to this task a bi-directional attention flow mechanism to obtain a query-aware context representation without early summarization. AttentiveChecker can be used to perform document retrieval, sentence selection, and claim verification. Experiments on the FEVER dataset indicate that AttentiveChecker is able to achieve the state-of-the-art results on the FEVER test set.
Scholars in inter-disciplinary fields like the Digital Humanities are increasingly interested in semantic annotation of specialized corpora. Yet, under-resourced languages, imperfect or noisily structured data, and user-specific classification tasks make it difficult to meet their needs using off-the-shelf models. Manual annotation of large corpora from scratch, meanwhile, can be prohibitively expensive. Thus, we propose an active learning solution for named entity recognition, attempting to maximize a custom model{'}s improvement per additional unit of manual annotation. Our system robustly handles any domain or user-defined label set and requires no external resources, enabling quality named entity recognition for Humanities corpora where such resources are not available. Evaluating on typologically disparate languages and datasets, we reduce required annotation by 20-60{\%} and greatly outperform a competitive active learning baseline.
Learning to hash via generative model has become a powerful paradigm for fast similarity search in documents retrieval. To get binary representation (i.e., hash codes), the discrete distribution prior (i.e., Bernoulli Distribution) is applied to train the variational autoencoder (VAE). However, the discrete stochastic layer is usually incompatible with the backpropagation in the training stage, and thus causes a gradient flow problem because of non-differentiable operators. The reparameterization trick of sampling from a discrete distribution usually inc non-differentiable operators. In this paper, we propose a method, Doc2hash, that solves the gradient flow problem of the discrete stochastic layer by using continuous relaxation on priors, and trains the generative model in an end-to-end manner to generate hash codes. In qualitative and quantitative experiments, we show the proposed model outperforms other state-of-art methods.
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are a promising approach for text generation that, unlike traditional language models (LM), does not suffer from the problem of {``}exposure bias{''}. However, A major hurdle for understanding the potential of GANs for text generation is the lack of a clear evaluation metric. In this work, we propose to approximate the distribution of text generated by a GAN, which permits evaluating them with traditional probability-based LM metrics. We apply our approximation procedure on several GAN-based models and show that they currently perform substantially worse than state-of-the-art LMs. Our evaluation procedure promotes better understanding of the relation between GANs and LMs, and can accelerate progress in GAN-based text generation.
Text generation with generative adversarial networks (GANs) can be divided into the text-based and code-based categories according to the type of signals used for discrimination. In this work, we introduce a novel text-based approach called Soft-GAN to effectively exploit GAN setup for text generation. We demonstrate how autoencoders (AEs) can be used for providing a continuous representation of sentences, which we will refer to as soft-text. This soft representation will be used in GAN discrimination to synthesize similar soft-texts. We also propose hybrid latent code and text-based GAN (LATEXT-GAN) approaches with one or more discriminators, in which a combination of the latent code and the soft-text is used for GAN discriminations. We perform a number of subjective and objective experiments on two well-known datasets (SNLI and Image COCO) to validate our techniques. We discuss the results using several evaluation metrics and show that the proposed techniques outperform the traditional GAN-based text-generation methods.
We propose neural models to generate high-quality text from structured representations based on Minimal Recursion Semantics (MRS). MRS is a rich semantic representation that encodes more precise semantic detail than other representations such as Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR). We show that a sequence-to-sequence model that maps a linearization of Dependency MRS, a graph-based representation of MRS, to text can achieve a BLEU score of 66.11 when trained on gold data. The performance of the model can be improved further using a high-precision, broad coverage grammar-based parser to generate a large silver training corpus, achieving a final BLEU score of 77.17 on the full test set, and 83.37 on the subset of test data most closely matching the silver data domain. Our results suggest that MRS-based representations are a good choice for applications that need both structured semantics and the ability to produce natural language text as output.
Data-to-text generation can be conceptually divided into two parts: ordering and structuring the information (planning), and generating fluent language describing the information (realization). Modern neural generation systems conflate these two steps into a single end-to-end differentiable system. We propose to split the generation process into a symbolic text-planning stage that is faithful to the input, followed by a neural generation stage that focuses only on realization. For training a plan-to-text generator, we present a method for matching reference texts to their corresponding text plans. For inference time, we describe a method for selecting high-quality text plans for new inputs. We implement and evaluate our approach on the WebNLG benchmark. Our results demonstrate that decoupling text planning from neural realization indeed improves the system{'}s reliability and adequacy while maintaining fluent output. We observe improvements both in BLEU scores and in manual evaluations. Another benefit of our approach is the ability to output diverse realizations of the same input, paving the way to explicit control over the generated text structure.
Recent approaches to question generation have used modifications to a Seq2Seq architecture inspired by advances in machine translation. Models are trained using teacher forcing to optimise only the one-step-ahead prediction. However, at test time, the model is asked to generate a whole sequence, causing errors to propagate through the generation process (exposure bias). A number of authors have suggested that optimising for rewards less tightly coupled to the training data might counter this mismatch. We therefore optimise directly for various objectives beyond simply replicating the ground truth questions, including a novel approach using an adversarial discriminator that seeks to generate questions that are indistinguishable from real examples. We confirm that training with policy gradient methods leads to increases in the metrics used as rewards. We perform a human evaluation, and show that although these metrics have previously been assumed to be good proxies for question quality, they are poorly aligned with human judgement and the model simply learns to exploit the weaknesses of the reward source.
Generating texts which express complex ideas spanning multiple sentences requires a structured representation of their content (document plan), but these representations are prohibitively expensive to manually produce. In this work, we address the problem of generating coherent multi-sentence texts from the output of an information extraction system, and in particular a knowledge graph. Graphical knowledge representations are ubiquitous in computing, but pose a significant challenge for text generation techniques due to their non-hierarchical nature, collapsing of long-distance dependencies, and structural variety. We introduce a novel graph transforming encoder which can leverage the relational structure of such knowledge graphs without imposing linearization or hierarchical constraints. Incorporated into an encoder-decoder setup, we provide an end-to-end trainable system for graph-to-text generation that we apply to the domain of scientific text. Automatic and human evaluations show that our technique produces more informative texts which exhibit better document structure than competitive encoder-decoder methods.
Open Information Extraction (OpenIE) extracts meaningful structured tuples from free-form text. Most previous work on OpenIE considers extracting data from one sentence at a time. We describe NeurON, a system for extracting tuples from question-answer pairs. One of the main motivations for NeurON is to be able to extend knowledge bases in a way that considers precisely the information that users care about. NeurON addresses several challenges. First, an answer text is often hard to understand without knowing the question, and second, relevant information can span multiple sentences. To address these, NeurON formulates extraction as a multi-source sequence-to-sequence learning task, wherein it combines distributed representations of a question and an answer to generate knowledge facts. We describe experiments on two real-world datasets that demonstrate that NeurON can find a significant number of new and interesting facts to extend a knowledge base compared to state-of-the-art OpenIE methods.
Most research in reading comprehension has focused on answering questions based on individual documents or even single paragraphs. We introduce a neural model which integrates and reasons relying on information spread within documents and across multiple documents. We frame it as an inference problem on a graph. Mentions of entities are nodes of this graph while edges encode relations between different mentions (e.g., within- and cross-document co-reference). Graph convolutional networks (GCNs) are applied to these graphs and trained to perform multi-step reasoning. Our Entity-GCN method is scalable and compact, and it achieves state-of-the-art results on a multi-document question answering dataset, WikiHop (Welbl et al., 2018).
We compare three new datasets for question answering: SQuAD 2.0, QuAC, and CoQA, along several of their new features: (1) unanswerable questions, (2) multi-turn interactions, and (3) abstractive answers.We show that the datasets provide complementary coverage of the first two aspects, but weak coverage of the third.Because of the datasets{'} structural similarity, a single extractive model can be easily adapted to any of the datasets and we show improved baseline results on both SQuAD 2.0 and CoQA. Despite the similarity, models trained on one dataset are ineffective on another dataset, but we find moderate performance improvement through pretraining. To encourage cross-evaluation, we release code for conversion between datasets.
Question-answering plays an important role in e-commerce as it allows potential customers to actively seek crucial information about products or services to help their purchase decision making. Inspired by the recent success of machine reading comprehension (MRC) on formal documents, this paper explores the potential of turning customer reviews into a large source of knowledge that can be exploited to answer user questions. We call this problem Review Reading Comprehension (RRC). To the best of our knowledge, no existing work has been done on RRC. In this work, we first build an RRC dataset called ReviewRC based on a popular benchmark for aspect-based sentiment analysis. Since ReviewRC has limited training examples for RRC (and also for aspect-based sentiment analysis), we then explore a novel post-training approach on the popular language model BERT to enhance the performance of fine-tuning of BERT for RRC. To show the generality of the approach, the proposed post-training is also applied to some other review-based tasks such as aspect extraction and aspect sentiment classification in aspect-based sentiment analysis. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed post-training is highly effective.
Short texts challenge NLP tasks such as named entity recognition, disambiguation, linking and relation inference because they do not provide sufficient context or are partially malformed (e.g. wrt. capitalization, long tail entities, implicit relations). In this work, we present the Falcon approach which effectively maps entities and relations within a short text to its mentions of a background knowledge graph. Falcon overcomes the challenges of short text using a light-weight linguistic approach relying on a background knowledge graph. Falcon performs joint entity and relation linking of a short text by leveraging several fundamental principles of English morphology (e.g. compounding, headword identification) and utilizes an extended knowledge graph created by merging entities and relations from various knowledge sources. It uses the context of entities for finding relations and does not require training data. Our empirical study using several standard benchmarks and datasets show that Falcon significantly outperforms state-of-the-art entity and relation linking for short text query inventories.
Our goal is procedural text comprehension, namely tracking how the properties of entities (e.g., their location) change with time given a procedural text (e.g., a paragraph about photosynthesis, a recipe). This task is challenging as the world is changing throughout the text, and despite recent advances, current systems still struggle with this task. Our approach is to leverage the fact that, for many procedural texts, multiple independent descriptions are readily available, and that predictions from them should be consistent (label consistency). We present a new learning framework that leverages label consistency during training, allowing consistency bias to be built into the model. Evaluation on a standard benchmark dataset for procedural text, ProPara (Dalvi et al., 2018), shows that our approach significantly improves prediction performance (F1) over prior state-of-the-art systems.
We introduce a large-scale dataset of math word problems and an interpretable neural math problem solver by learning to map problems to their operation programs. Due to annotation challenges, current datasets in this domain have been either relatively small in scale or did not offer precise operational annotations over diverse problem types. We introduce a new representation language to model operation programs corresponding to each math problem that aim to improve both the performance and the interpretability of the learned models. Using this representation language, we significantly enhance the AQUA-RAT dataset with fully-specified operational programs. We additionally introduce a neural sequence-to-program model with automatic problem categorization. Our experiments show improvements over competitive baselines in our dataset as well as the AQUA-RAT dataset. The results are still lower than human performance indicating that the dataset poses new challenges for future research. Our dataset is available at https://math-qa.github.io/math-QA/
Reading comprehension has recently seen rapid progress, with systems matching humans on the most popular datasets for the task. However, a large body of work has highlighted the brittleness of these systems, showing that there is much work left to be done. We introduce a new reading comprehension benchmark, DROP, which requires Discrete Reasoning Over the content of Paragraphs. In this crowdsourced, adversarially-created, 55k-question benchmark, a system must resolve references in a question, perhaps to multiple input positions, and perform discrete operations over them (such as addition, counting, or sorting). These operations require a much more comprehensive understanding of the content of paragraphs, as they remove the paraphrase-and-entity-typing shortcuts available in prior datasets. We apply state-of-the-art methods from both the reading comprehension and semantic parsing literatures on this dataset and show that the best systems only achieve 38.4{\%} F1 on our generalized accuracy metric, while expert human performance is 96{\%}. We additionally present a new model that combines reading comprehension methods with simple numerical reasoning to achieve 51{\%} F1.
A recently proposed lattice model has demonstrated that words in character sequence can provide rich word boundary information for character-based Chinese NER model. In this model, word information is integrated into a shortcut path between the start and the end characters of the word. However, the existence of shortcut path may cause the model to degenerate into a partial word-based model, which will suffer from word segmentation errors. Furthermore, the lattice model can not be trained in batches due to its DAG structure. In this paper, we propose a novel word-character LSTM(WC-LSTM) model to add word information into the start or the end character of the word, alleviating the influence of word segmentation errors while obtaining the word boundary information. Four different strategies are explored in our model to encode word information into a fixed-sized representation for efficient batch training. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that our proposed model outperforms other state-of-the-arts models.
Arabic text is typically written without short vowels (or diacritics). However, their presence is required for properly verbalizing Arabic and is hence essential for applications such as text to speech. There are two types of diacritics, namely core-word diacritics and case-endings. Most previous works on automatic Arabic diacritic recovery rely on a large number of manually engineered features, particularly for case-endings. In this work, we present a unified character level sequence-to-sequence deep learning model that recovers both types of diacritics without the use of explicit feature engineering. Specifically, we employ a standard neural machine translation setup on overlapping windows of words (broken down into characters), and then we use voting to select the most likely diacritized form of a word. The proposed model outperforms all previous state-of-the-art systems. Our best settings achieve a word error rate (WER) of 4.49{\%} compared to the state-of-the-art of 12.25{\%} on a standard dataset.
Multi-task learning (MTL) has been studied recently for sequence labeling. Typically, auxiliary tasks are selected specifically in order to improve the performance of a target task. Jointly learning multiple tasks in a way that benefit all of them simultaneously can increase the utility of MTL. In order to do so, we propose a new LSTM cell which contains both shared parameters that can learn from all tasks, and task-specific parameters that can learn task-specific information. We name it a Shared-Cell Long-Short Term Memory SC-LSTM. Experimental results on three sequence labeling benchmarks (named-entity recognition, text chunking, and part-of-speech tagging) demonstrate the effectiveness of our SC-LSTM cell.
Distantly-labeled data can be used to scale up training of statistical models, but it is typically noisy and that noise can vary with the distant labeling technique. In this work, we propose a two-stage procedure for handling this type of data: denoise it with a learned model, then train our final model on clean and denoised distant data with standard supervised training. Our denoising approach consists of two parts. First, a filtering function discards examples from the distantly labeled data that are wholly unusable. Second, a relabeling function repairs noisy labels for the retained examples. Each of these components is a model trained on synthetically-noised examples generated from a small manually-labeled set. We investigate this approach on the ultra-fine entity typing task of Choi et al. (2018). Our baseline model is an extension of their model with pre-trained ELMo representations, which already achieves state-of-the-art performance. Adding distant data that has been denoised with our learned models gives further performance gains over this base model, outperforming models trained on raw distant data or heuristically-denoised distant data.
While rule-based detection of subject-verb agreement (SVA) errors is sensitive to syntactic parsing errors and irregularities and exceptions to the main rules, neural sequential labelers have a tendency to overfit their training data. We observe that rule-based error generation is less sensitive to syntactic parsing errors and irregularities than error detection and explore a simple, yet efficient approach to getting the best of both worlds: We train neural sequential labelers on the combination of large volumes of silver standard data, obtained through rule-based error generation, and gold standard data. We show that our simple protocol leads to more robust detection of SVA errors on both in-domain and out-of-domain data, as well as in the context of other errors and long-distance dependencies; and across four standard benchmarks, the induced model on average achieves a new state of the art.
Unsupervised part of speech (POS) tagging is often framed as a clustering problem, but practical taggers need to ground their clusters as well. Grounding generally requires reference labeled data, a luxury a low-resource language might not have. In this work, we describe an approach for low-resource unsupervised POS tagging that yields fully grounded output and requires no labeled training data. We find the classic method of Brown et al. (1992) clusters well in our use case and employ a decipherment-based approach to grounding. This approach presumes a sequence of cluster IDs is a {`}ciphertext{'} and seeks a POS tag-to-cluster ID mapping that will reveal the POS sequence. We show intrinsically that, despite the difficulty of the task, we obtain reasonable performance across a variety of languages. We also show extrinsically that incorporating our POS tagger into a name tagger leads to state-of-the-art tagging performance in Sinhalese and Kinyarwanda, two languages with nearly no labeled POS data available. We further demonstrate our tagger{'}s utility by incorporating it into a true {`}zero-resource{'} variant of the MALOPA (Ammar et al., 2016) dependency parser model that removes the current reliance on multilingual resources and gold POS tags for new languages. Experiments show that including our tagger makes up much of the accuracy lost when gold POS tags are unavailable.
Different languages might have different word orders. In this paper, we investigate crosslingual transfer and posit that an orderagnostic model will perform better when transferring to distant foreign languages. To test our hypothesis, we train dependency parsers on an English corpus and evaluate their transfer performance on 30 other languages. Specifically, we compare encoders and decoders based on Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) and modified self-attentive architectures. The former relies on sequential information while the latter is more flexible at modeling word order. Rigorous experiments and detailed analysis shows that RNN-based architectures transfer well to languages that are close to English, while self-attentive models have better overall cross-lingual transferability and perform especially well on distant languages.
We propose a generative model for a sentence that uses two latent variables, with one intended to represent the syntax of the sentence and the other to represent its semantics. We show we can achieve better disentanglement between semantic and syntactic representations by training with multiple losses, including losses that exploit aligned paraphrastic sentences and word-order information. We evaluate our models on standard semantic similarity tasks and novel syntactic similarity tasks. Empirically, we find that the model with the best performing syntactic and semantic representations also gives rise to the most disentangled representations.
Unsupervised document representation learning is an important task providing pre-trained features for NLP applications. Unlike most previous work which learn the embedding based on self-prediction of the surface of text, we explicitly exploit the inter-document information and directly model the relations of documents in embedding space with a discriminative network and a novel objective. Extensive experiments on both small and large public datasets show the competitiveness of the proposed method. In evaluations on standard document classification, our model has errors that are 5 to 13{\%} lower than state-of-the-art unsupervised embedding models. The reduction in error is even more pronounced in scarce label setting.
In this paper, we present an adaptive convolution for text classification to give flexibility to convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Unlike traditional convolutions which utilize the same set of filters regardless of different inputs, the adaptive convolution employs adaptively generated convolutional filters conditioned on inputs. We achieve this by attaching filter-generating networks, which are carefully designed to generate input-specific filters, to convolution blocks in existing CNNs. We show the efficacy of our approach in existing CNNs based on the performance evaluation. Our evaluation indicates that all of our baselines achieve performance improvements with adaptive convolutions as much as up to 2.6 percentage point in seven benchmark text classification datasets.
Aspect-based sentiment analysis involves the recognition of so called opinion target expressions (OTEs). To automatically extract OTEs, supervised learning algorithms are usually employed which are trained on manually annotated corpora. The creation of these corpora is labor-intensive and sufficiently large datasets are therefore usually only available for a very narrow selection of languages and domains. In this work, we address the lack of available annotated data for specific languages by proposing a zero-shot cross-lingual approach for the extraction of opinion target expressions. We leverage multilingual word embeddings that share a common vector space across various languages and incorporate these into a convolutional neural network architecture for OTE extraction. Our experiments with 5 languages give promising results: We can successfully train a model on annotated data of a source language and perform accurate prediction on a target language without ever using any annotated samples in that target language. Depending on the source and target language pairs, we reach performances in a zero-shot regime of up to 77{\%} of a model trained on target language data. Furthermore, we can increase this performance up to 87{\%} of a baseline model trained on target language data by performing cross-lingual learning from multiple source languages.
Cross-domain sentiment classification aims to predict sentiment polarity on a target domain utilizing a classifier learned from a source domain. Most existing adversarial learning methods focus on aligning the global marginal distribution by fooling a domain discriminator, without taking category-specific decision boundaries into consideration, which can lead to the mismatch of category-level features. In this work, we propose an adversarial category alignment network (ACAN), which attempts to enhance category consistency between the source domain and the target domain. Specifically, we increase the discrepancy of two polarity classifiers to provide diverse views, locating ambiguous features near the decision boundaries. Then the generator learns to create better features away from the category boundaries by minimizing this discrepancy. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that the proposed method can achieve state-of-the-art performance and produce more discriminative features.
Opinion target extraction and opinion words extraction are two fundamental subtasks in Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA). Recently, many methods have made progress on these two tasks. However, few works aim at extracting opinion targets and opinion words as pairs. In this paper, we propose a novel sequence labeling subtask for ABSA named TOWE (Target-oriented Opinion Words Extraction), which aims at extracting the corresponding opinion words for a given opinion target. A target-fused sequence labeling neural network model is designed to perform this task. The opinion target information is well encoded into context by an Inward-Outward LSTM. Then left and right contexts of the opinion target and the global context are combined to find the corresponding opinion words. We build four datasets for TOWE based on several popular ABSA benchmarks from laptop and restaurant reviews. The experimental results show that our proposed model outperforms the other compared methods significantly. We believe that our work may not only be helpful for downstream sentiment analysis task, but can also be used for pair-wise opinion summarization.
We address the problem of abstractive summarization in two directions: proposing a novel dataset and a new model. First, we collect Reddit TIFU dataset, consisting of 120K posts from the online discussion forum Reddit. We use such informal crowd-generated posts as text source, in contrast with existing datasets that mostly use formal documents as source such as news articles. Thus, our dataset could less suffer from some biases that key sentences usually located at the beginning of the text and favorable summary candidates are already inside the text in similar forms. Second, we propose a novel abstractive summarization model named multi-level memory networks (MMN), equipped with multi-level memory to store the information of text from different levels of abstraction. With quantitative evaluation and user studies via Amazon Mechanical Turk, we show the Reddit TIFU dataset is highly abstractive and the MMN outperforms the state-of-the-art summarization models.
Automating the assessment of learner summary provides a useful tool for assessing learner reading comprehension. We present a summarization task for evaluating non-native reading comprehension and propose three novel approaches to automatically assess the learner summaries. We evaluate our models on two datasets we created and show that our models outperform traditional approaches that rely on exact word match on this task. Our best model produces quality assessments close to professional examiners.
Neural sequence-to-sequence models have been successfully applied to text compression. However, these models were trained on huge automatically induced parallel corpora, which are only available for a few domains and tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel interactive setup to neural text compression that enables transferring a model to new domains and compression tasks with minimal human supervision. This is achieved by employing active learning, which intelligently samples from a large pool of unlabeled data. Using this setup, we can successfully adapt a model trained on small data of 40k samples for a headline generation task to a general text compression dataset at an acceptable compression quality with just 500 sampled instances annotated by a human.
We propose a novel conditioned text generation model. It draws inspiration from traditional template-based text generation techniques, where the source provides the content (i.e., what to say), and the template influences how to say it. Building on the successful encoder-decoder paradigm, it first encodes the content representation from the given input text; to produce the output, it retrieves exemplar text from the training data as {``}soft templates,{''} which are then used to construct an exemplar-specific decoder. We evaluate the proposed model on abstractive text summarization and data-to-text generation. Empirical results show that this model achieves strong performance and outperforms comparable baselines.
Highlighting while reading is a natural behavior for people to track salient content of a document. It would be desirable to teach an extractive summarizer to do the same. However, a major obstacle to the development of a supervised summarizer is the lack of ground-truth. Manual annotation of extraction units is cost-prohibitive, whereas acquiring labels by automatically aligning human abstracts and source documents can yield inferior results. In this paper we describe a novel framework to guide a supervised, extractive summarization system with question-answering rewards. We argue that quality summaries should serve as document surrogates to answer important questions, and such question-answer pairs can be conveniently obtained from human abstracts. The system learns to promote summaries that are informative, fluent, and perform competitively on question-answering. Our results compare favorably with those reported by strong summarization baselines as evaluated by automatic metrics and human assessors.
We propose a grounded dialogue state encoder which addresses a foundational issue on how to integrate visual grounding with dialogue system components. As a test-bed, we focus on the GuessWhat?! game, a two-player game where the goal is to identify an object in a complex visual scene by asking a sequence of yes/no questions. Our visually-grounded encoder leverages synergies between guessing and asking questions, as it is trained jointly using multi-task learning. We further enrich our model via a cooperative learning regime. We show that the introduction of both the joint architecture and cooperative learning lead to accuracy improvements over the baseline system. We compare our approach to an alternative system which extends the baseline with reinforcement learning. Our in-depth analysis shows that the linguistic skills of the two models differ dramatically, despite approaching comparable performance levels. This points at the importance of analyzing the linguistic output of competing systems beyond numeric comparison solely based on task success.
Visual Dialog is a multi-modal task that requires a model to participate in a multi-turn human dialog grounded on an image, and generate correct, human-like responses. In this paper, we propose a novel Adversarial Multi-modal Feature Encoding (AMFE) framework for effective and robust auxiliary training of visual dialog systems. AMFE can force the language-encoding part of a model to generate hidden states in a distribution closely related to the distribution of real-world images, resulting in language features containing general knowledge from both modalities by nature, which can help generate both more correct and more general responses with reasonably low time cost. Experimental results show that AMFE can steadily bring performance gains to different models on different scales of data. Our method outperforms both the supervised learning baselines and other fine-tuning methods, achieving state-of-the-art results on most metrics of VisDial v0.5/v0.9 generative tasks.
Human language is a rich multimodal signal consisting of spoken words, facial expressions, body gestures, and vocal intonations. Learning representations for these spoken utterances is a complex research problem due to the presence of multiple heterogeneous sources of information. Recent advances in multimodal learning have followed the general trend of building more complex models that utilize various attention, memory and recurrent components. In this paper, we propose two simple but strong baselines to learn embeddings of multimodal utterances. The first baseline assumes a conditional factorization of the utterance into unimodal factors. Each unimodal factor is modeled using the simple form of a likelihood function obtained via a linear transformation of the embedding. We show that the optimal embedding can be derived in closed form by taking a weighted average of the unimodal features. In order to capture richer representations, our second baseline extends the first by factorizing into unimodal, bimodal, and trimodal factors, while retaining simplicity and efficiency during learning and inference. From a set of experiments across two tasks, we show strong performance on both supervised and semi-supervised multimodal prediction, as well as significant (10 times) speedups over neural models during inference. Overall, we believe that our strong baseline models offer new benchmarking options for future research in multimodal learning.
A grand goal in AI is to build a robot that can accurately navigate based on natural language instructions, which requires the agent to perceive the scene, understand and ground language, and act in the real-world environment. One key challenge here is to learn to navigate in new environments that are unseen during training. Most of the existing approaches perform dramatically worse in unseen environments as compared to seen ones. In this paper, we present a generalizable navigational agent. Our agent is trained in two stages. The first stage is training via mixed imitation and reinforcement learning, combining the benefits from both off-policy and on-policy optimization. The second stage is fine-tuning via newly-introduced {`}unseen{'} triplets (environment, path, instruction). To generate these unseen triplets, we propose a simple but effective {`}environmental dropout{'} method to mimic unseen environments, which overcomes the problem of limited seen environment variability. Next, we apply semi-supervised learning (via back-translation) on these dropout environments to generate new paths and instructions. Empirically, we show that our agent is substantially better at generalizability when fine-tuned with these triplets, outperforming the state-of-art approaches by a large margin on the private unseen test set of the Room-to-Room task, and achieving the top rank on the leaderboard.
Recent work in neural generation has attracted significant interest in controlling the form of text, such as style, persona, and politeness. However, there has been less work on controlling neural text generation for content. This paper introduces the notion of Content Transfer for long-form text generation, where the task is to generate a next sentence in a document that both fits its context and is grounded in a content-rich external textual source such as a news story. Our experiments on Wikipedia data show significant improvements against competitive baselines. As another contribution of this paper, we release a benchmark dataset of 640k Wikipedia referenced sentences paired with the source articles to encourage exploration of this new task.
We propose a multi-task learning framework to learn a joint Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) model that can be applied to a wide range of MRC tasks in different domains. Inspired by recent ideas of data selection in machine translation, we develop a novel sample re-weighting scheme to assign sample-specific weights to the loss. Empirical study shows that our approach can be applied to many existing MRC models. Combined with contextual representations from pre-trained language models (such as ELMo), we achieve new state-of-the-art results on a set of MRC benchmark datasets. We release our code at \url{https://github.com/xycforgithub/MultiTask-MRC}.
Solving math word problems is a challenging task that requires accurate natural language understanding to bridge natural language texts and math expressions. Motivated by the intuition about how human generates the equations given the problem texts, this paper presents a neural approach to automatically solve math word problems by operating symbols according to their semantic meanings in texts. This paper views the process of generating equation as a bridge between the semantic world and the symbolic world, where the proposed neural math solver is based on an encoder-decoder framework. In the proposed model, the encoder is designed to understand the semantics of problems, and the decoder focuses on tracking semantic meanings of the generated symbols and then deciding which symbol to generate next. The preliminary experiments are conducted in a dataset Math23K, and our model significantly outperforms both the state-of-the-art single model and the best non-retrieval-based model over about 10{\%} accuracy, demonstrating the effectiveness of bridging the symbolic and semantic worlds from math word problems.
Training semantic parsers from question-answer pairs typically involves searching over an exponentially large space of logical forms, and an unguided search can easily be misled by spurious logical forms that coincidentally evaluate to the correct answer. We propose a novel iterative training algorithm that alternates between searching for consistent logical forms and maximizing the marginal likelihood of the retrieved ones. This training scheme lets us iteratively train models that provide guidance to subsequent ones to search for logical forms of increasing complexity, thus dealing with the problem of spuriousness. We evaluate these techniques on two hard datasets: WikiTableQuestions (WTQ) and Cornell Natural Language Visual Reasoning (NLVR), and show that our training algorithm outperforms the previous best systems, on WTQ in a comparable setting, and on NLVR with significantly less supervision.
We propose a simple, fast, and mostly-unsupervised approach for non-factoid question answering (QA) called Alignment over Heterogeneous Embeddings (AHE). AHE simply aligns each word in the question and candidate answer with the most similar word in the retrieved supporting paragraph, and weighs each alignment score with the inverse document frequency of the corresponding question/answer term. AHE{'}s similarity function operates over embeddings that model the underlying text at different levels of abstraction: character (FLAIR), word (BERT and GloVe), and sentence (InferSent), where the latter is the only supervised component in the proposed approach. Despite its simplicity and lack of supervision, AHE obtains a new state-of-the-art performance on the {``}Easy{''} partition of the AI2 Reasoning Challenge (ARC) dataset (64.6{\%} accuracy), top-two performance on the {``}Challenge{''} partition of ARC (34.1{\%}), and top-three performance on the WikiQA dataset (74.08{\%} MRR), outperforming many other complex, supervised approaches. Our error analysis indicates that alignments over character, word, and sentence embeddings capture substantially different semantic information. We exploit this with a simple meta-classifier that learns how much to trust the predictions over each representation, which further improves the performance of unsupervised AHE.
We introduce a new method to tag Multiword Expressions (MWEs) using a linguistically interpretable language-independent deep learning architecture. We specifically target discontinuity, an under-explored aspect that poses a significant challenge to computational treatment of MWEs. Two neural architectures are explored: Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) and multi-head self-attention. GCN leverages dependency parse information, and self-attention attends to long-range relations. We finally propose a combined model that integrates complementary information from both, through a gating mechanism. The experiments on a standard multilingual dataset for verbal MWEs show that our model outperforms the baselines not only in the case of discontinuous MWEs but also in overall F-score.
Neural network models have been actively applied to word segmentation, especially Chinese, because of the ability to minimize the effort in feature engineering. Typical segmentation models are categorized as character-based, for conducting exact inference, or word-based, for utilizing word-level information. We propose a character-based model utilizing word information to leverage the advantages of both types of models. Our model learns the importance of multiple candidate words for a character on the basis of an attention mechanism, and makes use of it for segmentation decisions. The experimental results show that our model achieves better performance than the state-of-the-art models on both Japanese and Chinese benchmark datasets.
Chinese is a logographic writing system, and the shape of Chinese characters contain rich syntactic and semantic information. In this paper, we propose a model to learn Chinese word embeddings via three-level composition: (1) a convolutional neural network to extract the intra-character compositionality from the visual shape of a character; (2) a recurrent neural network with self-attention to compose character representation into word embeddings; (3) the Skip-Gram framework to capture non-compositionality directly from the contextual information. Evaluations demonstrate the superior performance of our model on four tasks: word similarity, sentiment analysis, named entity recognition and part-of-speech tagging.
We investigate subword information for Chinese word segmentation, by integrating sub word embeddings trained using byte-pair encoding into a Lattice LSTM (LaLSTM) network over a character sequence. Experiments on standard benchmark show that subword information brings significant gains over strong character-based segmentation models. To our knowledge, this is the first research on the effectiveness of subwords on neural word segmentation.
Cross-domain Chinese Word Segmentation (CWS) remains a challenge despite recent progress in neural-based CWS. The limited amount of annotated data in the target domain has been the key obstacle to a satisfactory performance. In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised word-based approach to improving cross-domain CWS given a baseline segmenter. Particularly, our model only deploys word embeddings trained on raw text in the target domain, discarding complex hand-crafted features and domain-specific dictionaries. Innovative subsampling and negative sampling methods are proposed to derive word embeddings optimized for CWS. We conduct experiments on five datasets in special domains, covering domains in novels, medicine, and patent. Results show that our model can obviously improve cross-domain CWS, especially in the segmentation of domain-specific noun entities. The word F-measure increases by over 3.0{\%} on four datasets, outperforming state-of-the-art semi-supervised and unsupervised cross-domain CWS approaches with a large margin. We make our data and code available on Github.
Character-level models of tokens have been shown to be effective at dealing with within-token noise and out-of-vocabulary words. However, they often still rely on correct token boundaries. In this paper, we propose to eliminate the need for tokenizers with an end-to-end character-level semi-Markov conditional random field. It uses neural networks for its character and segment representations. We demonstrate its effectiveness in multilingual settings and when token boundaries are noisy: It matches state-of-the-art part-of-speech taggers for various languages and significantly outperforms them on a noisy English version of a benchmark dataset. Our code and the noisy dataset are publicly available at http://cistern.cis.lmu.de/semiCRF.
For languages without natural word boundaries, like Japanese and Chinese, word segmentation is a prerequisite for downstream analysis. For Japanese, segmentation is often done jointly with part of speech tagging, and this process is usually referred to as morphological analysis. Morphological analyzers are trained on data hand-annotated with segmentation boundaries and part of speech tags. A segmentation dictionary or character n-gram information is also provided as additional inputs to the model. Incorporating this extra information makes models large. Modern neural morphological analyzers can consume gigabytes of memory. We propose a compact alternative to these cumbersome approaches which do not rely on any externally provided n-gram or word representations. The model uses only unigram character embeddings, encodes them using either stacked bi-LSTM or a self-attention network, and independently infers both segmentation and part of speech information. The model is trained in an end-to-end and semi-supervised fashion, on labels produced by a state-of-the-art analyzer. We demonstrate that the proposed technique rivals performance of a previous dictionary-based state-of-the-art approach and can even surpass it when training with the combination of human-annotated and automatically-annotated data. Our model itself is significantly smaller than the dictionary-based one: it uses less than 15 megabytes of space.
This paper studies the performance of a neural self-attentive parser on transcribed speech. Speech presents parsing challenges that do not appear in written text, such as the lack of punctuation and the presence of speech disfluencies (including filled pauses, repetitions, corrections, etc.). Disfluencies are especially problematic for conventional syntactic parsers, which typically fail to find any EDITED disfluency nodes at all. This motivated the development of special disfluency detection systems, and special mechanisms added to parsers specifically to handle disfluencies. However, we show here that neural parsers can find EDITED disfluency nodes, and the best neural parsers find them with an accuracy surpassing that of specialized disfluency detection systems, thus making these specialized mechanisms unnecessary. This paper also investigates a modified loss function that puts more weight on EDITED nodes. It also describes tree-transformations that simplify the disfluency detection task by providing alternative encodings of disfluencies and syntactic information.
Conversational context information, higher-level knowledge that spans across sentences, can help to recognize a long conversation. However, existing speech recognition models are typically built at a sentence level, and thus it may not capture important conversational context information. The recent progress in end-to-end speech recognition enables integrating context with other available information (e.g., acoustic, linguistic resources) and directly recognizing words from speech. In this work, we present a direct acoustic-to-word, end-to-end speech recognition model capable of utilizing the conversational context to better process long conversations. We evaluate our proposed approach on the Switchboard conversational speech corpus and show that our system outperforms a standard end-to-end speech recognition system.
Individual differences in speakers are reflected in their language use as well as in their interests and opinions. Characterizing these differences can be useful in human-computer interaction, as well as analysis of human-human conversations. In this work, we introduce a neural model for learning a dynamically updated speaker embedding in a conversational context. Initial model training is unsupervised, using context-sensitive language generation as an objective, with the context being the conversation history. Further fine-tuning can leverage task-dependent supervised training. The learned neural representation of speakers is shown to be useful for content ranking in a socialbot and dialog act prediction in human-human conversations.
Spoken language translation applications for speech suffer due to conversational speech phenomena, particularly the presence of disfluencies. With the rise of end-to-end speech translation models, processing steps such as disfluency removal that were previously an intermediate step between speech recognition and machine translation need to be incorporated into model architectures. We use a sequence-to-sequence model to translate from noisy, disfluent speech to fluent text with disfluencies removed using the recently collected {`}copy-edited{'} references for the Fisher Spanish-English dataset. We are able to directly generate fluent translations and introduce considerations about how to evaluate success on this task. This work provides a baseline for a new task, implicitly removing disfluencies in end-to-end translation of conversational speech.
Document-level event factuality identification is an important subtask in event factuality and is crucial for discourse understanding in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Previous studies mainly suffer from the scarcity of suitable corpus and effective methods. To solve these two issues, we first construct a corpus annotated with both document- and sentence-level event factuality information on both English and Chinese texts. Then we present an LSTM neural network based on adversarial training with both intra- and inter-sequence attentions to identify document-level event factuality. Experimental results show that our neural network model can outperform various baselines on the constructed corpus.
This paper presents a neural relation extraction method to deal with the noisy training data generated by distant supervision. Previous studies mainly focus on sentence-level de-noising by designing neural networks with intra-bag attentions. In this paper, both intra-bag and inter-bag attentions are considered in order to deal with the noise at sentence-level and bag-level respectively. First, relation-aware bag representations are calculated by weighting sentence embeddings using intra-bag attentions. Here, each possible relation is utilized as the query for attention calculation instead of only using the target relation in conventional methods. Furthermore, the representation of a group of bags in the training set which share the same relation label is calculated by weighting bag representations using a similarity-based inter-bag attention module. Finally, a bag group is utilized as a training sample when building our relation extractor. Experimental results on the New York Times dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed intra-bag and inter-bag attention modules. Our method also achieves better relation extraction accuracy than state-of-the-art methods on this dataset.
Extreme Multi-label classification (XML) is an important yet challenging machine learning task, that assigns to each instance its most relevant candidate labels from an extremely large label collection, where the numbers of labels, features and instances could be thousands or millions. XML is more and more on demand in the Internet industries, accompanied with the increasing business scale / scope and data accumulation. The extremely large label collections yield challenges such as computational complexity, inter-label dependency and noisy labeling. Many methods have been proposed to tackle these challenges, based on different mathematical formulations. In this paper, we propose a deep learning XML method, with a word-vector-based self-attention, followed by a ranking-based AutoEncoder architecture. The proposed method has three major advantages: 1) the autoencoder simultaneously considers the inter-label dependencies and the feature-label dependencies, by projecting labels and features onto a common embedding space; 2) the ranking loss not only improves the training efficiency and accuracy but also can be extended to handle noisy labeled data; 3) the efficient attention mechanism improves feature representation by highlighting feature importance. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show the proposed method is competitive to state-of-the-art methods.
This paper provides a new way to improve the efficiency of the REINFORCE training process. We apply it to the task of instance selection in distant supervision. Modeling the instance selection in one bag as a sequential decision process, a reinforcement learning agent is trained to determine whether an instance is valuable or not and construct a new bag with less noisy instances. However unbiased methods, such as REINFORCE, could usually take much time to train. This paper adopts posterior regularization (PR) to integrate some domain-specific rules in instance selection using REINFORCE. As the experiment results show, this method remarkably improves the performance of the relation classifier trained on cleaned distant supervision dataset as well as the efficiency of the REINFORCE training.
The bigger the corpus, the more topics it can potentially support. To truly make full use of massive text corpora, a topic model inference algorithm must therefore scale efficiently in 1) documents and 2) topics, while 3) achieving accurate inference. Previous methods have achieved two out of three of these criteria simultaneously, but never all three at once. In this paper, we develop an online inference algorithm for topic models which leverages stochasticity to scale well in the number of documents, sparsity to scale well in the number of topics, and which operates in the collapsed representation of the topic model for improved accuracy and run-time performance. We use a Monte Carlo inner loop in the online setting to approximate the collapsed variational Bayes updates in a sparse and efficient way, which we accomplish via the MetropolisHastings Walker method. We showcase our algorithm on LDA and the recently proposed mixed membership skip-gram topic model. Our method requires only amortized $O(k_{d})$ computation per word token instead of $O(K)$ operations, where the number of topics occurring for a particular document $k_{d}\ll$ the total number of topics in the corpus $K$, to converge to a high-quality solution.
In this paper, we present a novel integrated approach for keyphrase generation (KG). Unlike previous works which are purely extractive or generative, we first propose a new multi-task learning framework that jointly learns an extractive model and a generative model. Besides extracting keyphrases, the output of the extractive model is also employed to rectify the copy probability distribution of the generative model, such that the generative model can better identify important contents from the given document. Moreover, we retrieve similar documents with the given document from training data and use their associated keyphrases as external knowledge for the generative model to produce more accurate keyphrases. For further exploiting the power of extraction and retrieval, we propose a neural-based merging module to combine and re-rank the predicted keyphrases from the enhanced generative model, the extractive model, and the retrieved keyphrases. Experiments on the five KG benchmarks demonstrate that our integrated approach outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Text analytics is a useful tool for studying malware behavior and tracking emerging threats. The task of automated malware attribute identification based on cybersecurity texts is very challenging due to a large number of malware attribute labels and a small number of training instances. In this paper, we propose a novel feature learning method to leverage diverse knowledge sources such as small amount of human annotations, unlabeled text and specifications about malware attribute labels. Our evaluation has demonstrated the effectiveness of our method over the state-of-the-art malware attribute prediction systems.
Recently, distant supervision has gained great success on Fine-grained Entity Typing (FET). Despite its efficiency in reducing manual labeling efforts, it also brings the challenge of dealing with false entity type labels, as distant supervision assigns labels in a context-agnostic manner. Existing works alleviated this issue with partial-label loss, but usually suffer from confirmation bias, which means the classifier fit a pseudo data distribution given by itself. In this work, we propose to regularize distantly supervised models with Compact Latent Space Clustering (CLSC) to bypass this problem and effectively utilize noisy data yet. Our proposed method first dynamically constructs a similarity graph of different entity mentions; infer the labels of noisy instances via label propagation. Based on the inferred labels, mention embeddings are updated accordingly to encourage entity mentions with close semantics to form a compact cluster in the embedding space, thus leading to better classification performance. Extensive experiments on standard benchmarks show that our CLSC model consistently outperforms state-of-the-art distantly supervised entity typing systems by a significant margin.
When constructing models that learn from noisy labels produced by multiple annotators, it is important to accurately estimate the reliability of annotators. Annotators may provide labels of inconsistent quality due to their varying expertise and reliability in a domain. Previous studies have mostly focused on estimating each annotator{'}s overall reliability on the entire annotation task. However, in practice, the reliability of an annotator may depend on each specific instance. Only a limited number of studies have investigated modelling per-instance reliability and these only considered binary labels. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised model which can handle both binary and multi-class labels. It can automatically estimate the per-instance reliability of each annotator and the correct label for each instance. We specify our model as a probabilistic model which incorporates neural networks to model the dependency between latent variables and instances. For evaluation, the proposed method is applied to both synthetic and real data, including two labelling tasks: text classification and textual entailment. Experimental results demonstrate our novel method can not only accurately estimate the reliability of annotators across different instances, but also achieve superior performance in predicting the correct labels and detecting the least reliable annotators compared to state-of-the-art baselines.
This paper explores a new natural languageprocessing task, review-driven multi-label musicstyle classification. This task requires systemsto identify multiple styles of music basedon its reviews on websites. The biggest challengelies in the complicated relations of musicstyles. To tackle this problem, we proposea novel deep learning approach to automaticallylearn and exploit style correlations.Experiment results show that our approachachieves large improvements over baselines onthe proposed dataset. Furthermore, the visualizedanalysis shows that our approach performswell in capturing style correlations.
During the past few decades, knowledge bases (KBs) have experienced rapid growth. Nevertheless, most KBs still suffer from serious incompletion. Researchers proposed many tasks such as knowledge base completion and relation prediction to help build the representation of KBs. However, there are some issues unsettled towards enriching the KBs. Knowledge base completion and relation prediction assume that we know two elements of the fact triples and we are going to predict the missing one. This assumption is too restricted in practice and prevents it from discovering new facts directly. To address this issue, we propose a new task, namely, fact discovery from knowledge base. This task only requires that we know the head entity and the goal is to discover facts associated with the head entity. To tackle this new problem, we propose a novel framework that decomposes the discovery problem into several facet discovery components. We also propose a novel auto-encoder based facet component to estimate some facets of the fact. Besides, we propose a feedback learning component to share the information between each facet. We evaluate our framework using a benchmark dataset and the experimental results show that our framework achieves promising results. We also conduct an extensive analysis of our framework in discovering different kinds of facts. The source code of this paper can be obtained from https://github.com/thunlp/FFD.
When answering natural language questions over knowledge bases (KBs), different question components and KB aspects play different roles. However, most existing embedding-based methods for knowledge base question answering (KBQA) ignore the subtle inter-relationships between the question and the KB (e.g., entity types, relation paths and context). In this work, we propose to directly model the two-way flow of interactions between the questions and the KB via a novel Bidirectional Attentive Memory Network, called BAMnet. Requiring no external resources and only very few hand-crafted features, on the WebQuestions benchmark, our method significantly outperforms existing information-retrieval based methods, and remains competitive with (hand-crafted) semantic parsing based methods. Also, since we use attention mechanisms, our method offers better interpretability compared to other baselines.
In this paper we study yes/no questions that are naturally occurring {---} meaning that they are generated in unprompted and unconstrained settings. We build a reading comprehension dataset, BoolQ, of such questions, and show that they are unexpectedly challenging. They often query for complex, non-factoid information, and require difficult entailment-like inference to solve. We also explore the effectiveness of a range of transfer learning baselines. We find that transferring from entailment data is more effective than transferring from paraphrase or extractive QA data, and that it, surprisingly, continues to be very beneficial even when starting from massive pre-trained language models such as BERT. Our best method trains BERT on MultiNLI and then re-trains it on our train set. It achieves 80.4{\%} accuracy compared to 90{\%} accuracy of human annotators (and 62{\%} majority-baseline), leaving a significant gap for future work.
Traditional Key-value Memory Neural Networks (KV-MemNNs) are proved to be effective to support shallow reasoning over a collection of documents in domain specific Question Answering or Reading Comprehension tasks. However, extending KV-MemNNs to Knowledge Based Question Answering (KB-QA) is not trivia, which should properly decompose a complex question into a sequence of queries against the memory, and update the query representations to support multi-hop reasoning over the memory. In this paper, we propose a novel mechanism to enable conventional KV-MemNNs models to perform interpretable reasoning for complex questions. To achieve this, we design a new query updating strategy to mask previously-addressed memory information from the query representations, and introduce a novel STOP strategy to avoid invalid or repeated memory reading without strong annotation signals. This also enables KV-MemNNs to produce structured queries and work in a semantic parsing fashion. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that our solution, trained with question-answer pairs only, can provide conventional KV-MemNNs models with better reasoning abilities on complex questions, and achieve state-of-art performances.
Question Answering (QA) naturally reduces to an entailment problem, namely, verifying whether some text entails the answer to a question. However, for multi-hop QA tasks, which require reasoning with \textit{multiple} sentences, it remains unclear how best to utilize entailment models pre-trained on large scale datasets such as SNLI, which are based on sentence pairs. We introduce Multee, a general architecture that can effectively use entailment models for multi-hop QA tasks. Multee uses (i) a local module that helps locate important sentences, thereby avoiding distracting information, and (ii) a global module that aggregates information by effectively incorporating importance weights. Importantly, we show that both modules can use entailment functions pre-trained on a large scale NLI datasets. We evaluate performance on MultiRC and OpenBookQA, two multihop QA datasets. When using an entailment function pre-trained on NLI datasets, Multee outperforms QA models trained only on the target QA datasets and the OpenAI transformer models.
Language is gendered if the context surrounding a mention is suggestive of a particular binary gender for that mention. Detecting the different ways in which language is gendered is an important task since gendered language can bias NLP models (such as for coreference resolution). This task is challenging since genderedness is often expressed in subtle ways. Existing approaches need considerable annotation efforts for each language, domain, and author, and often require handcrafted lexicons and features. Additionally, these approaches do not provide a quantifiable measure of how gendered the text is, nor are they applicable at the fine-grained mention level. In this paper, we use existing NLP pipelines to automatically annotate gender of mentions in the text. On corpora labeled using this method, we train a supervised classifier to predict the gender of any mention from its context and evaluate it on unseen text. The model confidence for a mention{'}s gender can be used as a proxy to indicate the level of genderedness of the context. We test this gendered language detector on movie summaries, movie reviews, news articles, and fiction novels, achieving an AUC-ROC of up to 0.71, and observe that the model predictions agree with human judgments collected for this task. We also provide examples of detected gendered sentences from aforementioned domains.
We provide an NLP framework to uncover four linguistic dimensions of political polarization in social media: topic choice, framing, affect and illocutionary force. We quantify these aspects with existing lexical methods, and propose clustering of tweet embeddings as a means to identify salient topics for analysis across events; human evaluations show that our approach generates more cohesive topics than traditional LDA-based models. We apply our methods to study 4.4M tweets on 21 mass shootings. We provide evidence that the discussion of these events is highly polarized politically and that this polarization is primarily driven by partisan differences in framing rather than topic choice. We identify framing devices, such as grounding and the contrasting use of the terms {``}terrorist{''} and {``}crazy{''}, that contribute to polarization. Results pertaining to topic choice, affect and illocutionary force suggest that Republicans focus more on the shooter and event-specific facts (news) while Democrats focus more on the victims and call for policy changes. Our work contributes to a deeper understanding of the way group divisions manifest in language and to computational methods for studying them.
Existing computational models to understand hate speech typically frame the problem as a simple classification task, bypassing the understanding of hate symbols (e.g., 14 words, kigy) and their secret connotations. In this paper, we propose a novel task of deciphering hate symbols. To do this, we leveraged the Urban Dictionary and collected a new, symbol-rich Twitter corpus of hate speech. We investigate neural network latent context models for deciphering hate symbols. More specifically, we study Sequence-to-Sequence models and show how they are able to crack the ciphers based on context. Furthermore, we propose a novel Variational Decipher and show how it can generalize better to unseen hate symbols in a more challenging testing setting.
We propose a distance supervised relation extraction approach for long-tailed, imbalanced data which is prevalent in real-world settings. Here, the challenge is to learn accurate {``}few-shot{''} models for classes existing at the tail of the class distribution, for which little data is available. Inspired by the rich semantic correlations between classes at the long tail and those at the head, we take advantage of the knowledge from data-rich classes at the head of the distribution to boost the performance of the data-poor classes at the tail. First, we propose to leverage implicit relational knowledge among class labels from knowledge graph embeddings and learn explicit relational knowledge using graph convolution networks. Second, we integrate that relational knowledge into relation extraction model by coarse-to-fine knowledge-aware attention mechanism. We demonstrate our results for a large-scale benchmark dataset which show that our approach significantly outperforms other baselines, especially for long-tail relations.
Distant supervision has been widely used in relation extraction tasks without hand-labeled datasets recently. However, the automatically constructed datasets comprise numbers of wrongly labeled negative instances due to the incompleteness of knowledge bases, which is neglected by current distant supervised methods resulting in seriously misleading in both training and testing processes. To address this issue, we propose a novel semi-distant supervision approach for relation extraction by constructing a small accurate dataset and properly leveraging numerous instances without relation labels. In our approach, we construct accurate instances by both knowledge base and entity descriptions determined to avoid wrong negative labeling and further utilize unlabeled instances sufficiently using generative adversarial network (GAN) framework. Experimental results on real-world datasets show that our approach can achieve significant improvements in distant supervised relation extraction over strong baselines.
We introduce a general framework for several information extraction tasks that share span representations using dynamically constructed span graphs. The graphs are dynamically constructed by selecting the most confident entity spans and linking these nodes with confidence-weighted relation types and coreferences. The dynamic span graph allow coreference and relation type confidences to propagate through the graph to iteratively refine the span representations. This is unlike previous multi-task frameworks for information extraction in which the only interaction between tasks is in the shared first-layer LSTM. Our framework significantly outperforms state-of-the-art on multiple information extraction tasks across multiple datasets reflecting different domains. We further observe that the span enumeration approach is good at detecting nested span entities, with significant F1 score improvement on the ACE dataset.
Open Information Extraction (OpenIE), the problem of harvesting triples from natural language text whose predicate relations are not aligned to any pre-defined ontology, has been a popular subject of research for the last decade. However, this research has largely ignored the vast quantity of facts available in semi-structured webpages. In this paper, we define the problem of OpenIE from semi-structured websites to extract such facts, and present an approach for solving it. We also introduce a labeled evaluation dataset to motivate research in this area. Given a semi-structured website and a set of seed facts for some relations existing on its pages, we employ a semi-supervised label propagation technique to automatically create training data for the relations present on the site. We then use this training data to learn a classifier for relation extraction. Experimental results of this method on our new benchmark dataset obtained a precision of over 70{\%}. A larger scale extraction experiment on 31 websites in the movie vertical resulted in the extraction of over 2 million triples.
We present an approach to minimally supervised relation extraction that combines the benefits of learned representations and structured learning, and accurately predicts sentence-level relation mentions given only proposition-level supervision from a KB. By explicitly reasoning about missing data during learning, our approach enables large-scale training of 1D convolutional neural networks while mitigating the issue of label noise inherent in distant supervision. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on minimally supervised sentential relation extraction, outperforming a number of baselines, including a competitive approach that uses the attention layer of a purely neural model.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) systems are known to degrade when confronted with noisy data, especially when the system is trained only on clean data. In this paper, we show that augmenting training data with sentences containing artificially-introduced grammatical errors can make the system more robust to such errors. In combination with an automatic grammar error correction system, we can recover 1.0 BLEU out of 2.4 BLEU lost due to grammatical errors. We also present a set of Spanish translations of the JFLEG grammar error correction corpus, which allows for testing NMT robustness to real grammatical errors.
In domain adaptation for neural machine translation, translation performance can benefit from separating features into domain-specific features and common features. In this paper, we propose a method to explicitly model the two kinds of information in the encoder-decoder framework so as to exploit out-of-domain data in in-domain training. In our method, we maintain a private encoder and a private decoder for each domain which are used to model domain-specific information. In the meantime, we introduce a common encoder and a common decoder shared by all the domains which can only have domain-independent information flow through. Besides, we add a discriminator to the shared encoder and employ adversarial training for the whole model to reinforce the performance of information separation and machine translation simultaneously. Experiment results show that our method can outperform competitive baselines greatly on multiple data sets.
Despite the progress made in sentence-level NMT, current systems still fall short at achieving fluent, good quality translation for a full document. Recent works in context-aware NMT consider only a few previous sentences as context and may not scale to entire documents. To this end, we propose a novel and scalable top-down approach to hierarchical attention for context-aware NMT which uses sparse attention to selectively focus on relevant sentences in the document context and then attends to key words in those sentences. We also propose single-level attention approaches based on sentence or word-level information in the context. The document-level context representation, produced from these attention modules, is integrated into the encoder or decoder of the Transformer model depending on whether we use monolingual or bilingual context. Our experiments and evaluation on English-German datasets in different document MT settings show that our selective attention approach not only significantly outperforms context-agnostic baselines but also surpasses context-aware baselines in most cases.
Adversarial examples {---} perturbations to the input of a model that elicit large changes in the output {---} have been shown to be an effective way of assessing the robustness of sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models. However, these perturbations only indicate weaknesses in the model if they do not change the input so significantly that it legitimately results in changes in the expected output. This fact has largely been ignored in the evaluations of the growing body of related literature. Using the example of untargeted attacks on machine translation (MT), we propose a new evaluation framework for adversarial attacks on seq2seq models that takes the semantic equivalence of the pre- and post-perturbation input into account. Using this framework, we demonstrate that existing methods may not preserve meaning in general, breaking the aforementioned assumption that source side perturbations should not result in changes in the expected output. We further use this framework to demonstrate that adding additional constraints on attacks allows for adversarial perturbations that are more meaning-preserving, but nonetheless largely change the output sequence. Finally, we show that performing untargeted adversarial training with meaning-preserving attacks is beneficial to the model in terms of adversarial robustness, without hurting test performance. A toolkit implementing our evaluation framework is released at https://github.com/pmichel31415/teapot-nlp.
A major obstacle in reinforcement learning-based sentence generation is the large action space whose size is equal to the vocabulary size of the target-side language. To improve the efficiency of reinforcement learning, we present a novel approach for reducing the action space based on dynamic vocabulary prediction. Our method first predicts a fixed-size small vocabulary for each input to generate its target sentence. The input-specific vocabularies are then used at supervised and reinforcement learning steps, and also at test time. In our experiments on six machine translation and two image captioning datasets, our method achieves faster reinforcement learning ({\textasciitilde}2.7x faster) with less GPU memory ({\textasciitilde}2.3x less) than the full-vocabulary counterpart. We also show that our method more effectively receives rewards with fewer iterations of supervised pre-training.
The uncertainty measurement of classifiers{'} predictions is especially important in applications such as medical diagnoses that need to ensure limited human resources can focus on the most uncertain predictions returned by machine learning models. However, few existing uncertainty models attempt to improve overall prediction accuracy where human resources are involved in the text classification task. In this paper, we propose a novel neural-network-based model that applies a new dropout-entropy method for uncertainty measurement. We also design a metric learning method on feature representations, which can boost the performance of dropout-based uncertainty methods with smaller prediction variance in accurate prediction trials. Extensive experiments on real-world data sets demonstrate that our method can achieve a considerable improvement in overall prediction accuracy compared to existing approaches. In particular, our model improved the accuracy from 0.78 to 0.92 when 30{\%} of the most uncertain predictions were handed over to human experts in {``}20NewsGroup{''} data.
Sentence simplification is the task of rewriting texts so they are easier to understand. Recent research has applied sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) models to this task, focusing largely on training-time improvements via reinforcement learning and memory augmentation. One of the main problems with applying generic Seq2Seq models for simplification is that these models tend to copy directly from the original sentence, resulting in outputs that are relatively long and complex. We aim to alleviate this issue through the use of two main techniques. First, we incorporate content word complexities, as predicted with a leveled word complexity model, into our loss function during training. Second, we generate a large set of diverse candidate simplifications at test time, and rerank these to promote fluency, adequacy, and simplicity. Here, we measure simplicity through a novel sentence complexity model. These extensions allow our models to perform competitively with state-of-the-art systems while generating simpler sentences. We report standard automatic and human evaluation metrics.
Users participate in online discussion forums to learn from others and share their knowledge with the community. They often start a thread with a question or by sharing their new findings on a certain topic. We find that, unlike Community Question Answering, where questions are mostly factoid based, the threads in a forum are often open-ended (e.g., asking for recommendations from others) without a single correct answer. In this paper, we address the task of identifying helpful posts in a forum thread to help users comprehend long running discussion threads, which often contain repetitive or irrelevant posts. We propose a recurrent neural network based architecture to model (i) the relevance of a post regarding the original post starting the thread and (ii) the novelty it brings to the discussion, compared to the previous posts in the thread. Experimental results on different types of online forum datasets show that our model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art neural network models for text classification.
Training data for text classification is often limited in practice, especially for applications with many output classes or involving many related classification problems. This means classifiers must generalize from limited evidence, but the manner and extent of generalization is task dependent. Current practice primarily relies on pre-trained word embeddings to map words unseen in training to similar seen ones. Unfortunately, this squishes many components of meaning into highly restricted capacity. Our alternative begins with sparse pre-trained representations derived from unlabeled parsed corpora; based on the available training data, we select features that offers the relevant generalizations. This produces task-specific semantic vectors; here, we show that a feed-forward network over these vectors is especially effective in low-data scenarios, compared to existing state-of-the-art methods. By further pairing this network with a convolutional neural network, we keep this edge in low data scenarios and remain competitive when using full training sets.
Text style transfer rephrases a text from a source style (e.g., informal) to a target style (e.g., formal) while keeping its original meaning. Despite the success existing works have achieved using a parallel corpus for the two styles, transferring text style has proven significantly more challenging when there is no parallel training corpus. In this paper, we address this challenge by using a reinforcement-learning-based generator-evaluator architecture. Our generator employs an attention-based encoder-decoder to transfer a sentence from the source style to the target style. Our evaluator is an adversarially trained style discriminator with semantic and syntactic constraints that score the generated sentence for style, meaning preservation, and fluency. Experimental results on two different style transfer tasks{--}sentiment transfer, and formality transfer{--}show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art approaches.Furthermore, we perform a manual evaluation that demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method using subjective metrics of generated text quality.
We present an adaptation of RNN sequence models to the problem of multi-label classification for text, where the target is a set of labels, not a sequence. Previous such RNN models define probabilities for sequences but not for sets; attempts to obtain a set probability are after-thoughts of the network design, including pre-specifying the label order, or relating the sequence probability to the set probability in ad hoc ways. Our formulation is derived from a principled notion of set probability, as the sum of probabilities of corresponding permutation sequences for the set. We provide a new training objective that maximizes this set probability, and a new prediction objective that finds the most probable set on a test document. These new objectives are theoretically appealing because they give the RNN model freedom to discover the best label order, which often is the natural one (but different among documents). We develop efficient procedures to tackle the computation difficulties involved in training and prediction. Experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that we outperform state-of-the-art methods for this task.
Grapheme to phoneme (G2P) conversion is an integral part in various text and speech processing systems, such as: Text to Speech system, Speech Recognition system, etc. The existing methodologies for G2P conversion in Bangla language are mostly rule-based. However, data-driven approaches have proved their superiority over rule-based approaches for large-scale G2P conversion in other languages, such as: English, German, etc. As the performance of data-driven approaches for G2P conversion depend largely on pronunciation lexicon on which the system is trained, in this paper, we investigate on developing an improved training lexicon by identifying and categorizing the critical cases in Bangla language and include those critical cases in training lexicon for developing a robust G2P conversion system in Bangla language. Additionally, we have incorporated nasal vowels in our proposed phoneme list. Our methodology outperforms other state-of-the-art approaches for G2P conversion in Bangla language.
Knowledge Bases (KBs) require constant updating to reflect changes to the world they represent. For general purpose KBs, this is often done through Relation Extraction (RE), the task of predicting KB relations expressed in text mentioning entities known to the KB. One way to improve RE is to use KB Embeddings (KBE) for link prediction. However, despite clear connections between RE and KBE, little has been done toward properly unifying these models systematically. We help close the gap with a framework that unifies the learning of RE and KBE models leading to significant improvements over the state-of-the-art in RE. The code is available at https://github.com/billy-inn/HRERE.
We propose a new type of representation learning method that models words, phrases and sentences seamlessly. Our method does not depend on word segmentation and any human-annotated resources (e.g., word dictionaries), yet it is very effective for noisy corpora written in unsegmented languages such as Chinese and Japanese. The main idea of our method is to ignore word boundaries completely (i.e., segmentation-free), and construct representations for all character $n$-grams in a raw corpus with embeddings of compositional sub-$n$-grams. Although the idea is simple, our experiments on various benchmarks and real-world datasets show the efficacy of our proposal.
Distant supervision has obtained great progress on relation classification task. However, it still suffers from noisy labeling problem. Different from previous works that underutilize noisy data which inherently characterize the property of classification, in this paper, we propose RCEND, a novel framework to enhance Relation Classification by Exploiting Noisy Data. First, an instance discriminator with reinforcement learning is designed to split the noisy data into correctly labeled data and incorrectly labeled data. Second, we learn a robust relation classifier in semi-supervised learning way, whereby the correctly and incorrectly labeled data are treated as labeled and unlabeled data respectively. The experimental results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art models.
In this paper we present a method to learn word embeddings that are resilient to misspellings. Existing word embeddings have limited applicability to malformed texts, which contain a non-negligible amount of out-of-vocabulary words. We propose a method combining FastText with subwords and a supervised task of learning misspelling patterns. In our method, misspellings of each word are embedded close to their correct variants. We train these embeddings on a new dataset we are releasing publicly. Finally, we experimentally show the advantages of this approach on both intrinsic and extrinsic NLP tasks using public test sets.
We address relation extraction as an analogy problem by proposing a novel approach to learn representations of relations expressed by their textual mentions. In our assumption, if two pairs of entities belong to the same relation, then those two pairs are analogous. Following this idea, we collect a large set of analogous pairs by matching triples in knowledge bases with web-scale corpora through distant supervision. We leverage this dataset to train a hierarchical siamese network in order to learn entity-entity embeddings which encode relational information through the different linguistic paraphrasing expressing the same relation. We evaluate our model in a one-shot learning task by showing a promising generalization capability in order to classify unseen relation types, which makes this approach suitable to perform automatic knowledge base population with minimal supervision. Moreover, the model can be used to generate pre-trained embeddings which provide a valuable signal when integrated into an existing neural-based model by outperforming the state-of-the-art methods on a downstream relation extraction task.
Because large, human-annotated datasets suffer from labeling errors, it is crucial to be able to train deep neural networks in the presence of label noise. While training image classification models with label noise have received much attention, training text classification models have not. In this paper, we propose an approach to training deep networks that is robust to label noise. This approach introduces a non-linear processing layer (noise model) that models the statistics of the label noise into a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture. The noise model and the CNN weights are learned jointly from noisy training data, which prevents the model from overfitting to erroneous labels. Through extensive experiments on several text classification datasets, we show that this approach enables the CNN to learn better sentence representations and is robust even to extreme label noise. We find that proper initialization and regularization of this noise model is critical. Further, by contrast to results focusing on large batch sizes for mitigating label noise for image classification, we find that altering the batch size does not have much effect on classification performance.
Research has shown that neural models implicitly encode linguistic features, but there has been no research showing \textit{how} these encodings arise as the models are trained. We present the first study on the learning dynamics of neural language models, using a simple and flexible analysis method called Singular Vector Canonical Correlation Analysis (SVCCA), which enables us to compare learned representations across time and across models, without the need to evaluate directly on annotated data. We probe the evolution of syntactic, semantic, and topic representations, finding, for example, that part-of-speech is learned earlier than topic; that recurrent layers become more similar to those of a tagger during training; and embedding layers less similar. Our results and methods could inform better learning algorithms for NLP models, possibly to incorporate linguistic information more effectively.
Recurrent neural network language models (RNNLM) form a valuable foundation for many NLP systems, but training the models can be computationally expensive, and may take days to train on a large corpus. We explore a technique that uses large corpus n-gram statistics as a regularizer for training a neural network LM on a smaller corpus. In experiments with the Billion-Word and Wikitext corpora, we show that the technique is effective, and more time-efficient than simply training on a larger sequential corpus. We also introduce new strategies for selecting the most informative n-grams, and show that these boost efficiency.
Distributed representations of sentences have become ubiquitous in natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we consider a continual learning scenario for sentence representations: Given a sequence of corpora, we aim to optimize the sentence encoder with respect to the new corpus while maintaining its accuracy on the old corpora. To address this problem, we propose to initialize sentence encoders with the help of corpus-independent features, and then sequentially update sentence encoders using Boolean operations of conceptor matrices to learn corpus-dependent features. We evaluate our approach on semantic textual similarity tasks and show that our proposed sentence encoder can continually learn features from new corpora while retaining its competence on previously encountered corpora.
Unsupervised relation discovery aims to discover new relations from a given text corpus without annotated data. However, it does not consider existing human annotated knowledge bases even when they are relevant to the relations to be discovered. In this paper, we study the problem of how to use out-of-relation knowledge bases to supervise the discovery of unseen relations, where out-of-relation means that relations to discover from the text corpus and those in knowledge bases are not overlapped. We construct a set of constraints between entity pairs based on the knowledge base embedding and then incorporate constraints into the relation discovery by a variational auto-encoder based algorithm. Experiments show that our new approach can improve the state-of-the-art relation discovery performance by a large margin.
Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) has been recently modeled using the sequence-to-sequence framework. However, unlike sequence transduction problems such as machine translation, GEC suffers from the lack of plentiful parallel data. We describe two approaches for generating large parallel datasets for GEC using publicly available Wikipedia data. The first method extracts source-target pairs from Wikipedia edit histories with minimal filtration heuristics while the second method introduces noise into Wikipedia sentences via round-trip translation through bridge languages. Both strategies yield similar sized parallel corpora containing around 4B tokens. We employ an iterative decoding strategy that is tailored to the loosely supervised nature of our constructed corpora. We demonstrate that neural GEC models trained using either type of corpora give similar performance. Fine-tuning these models on the Lang-8 corpus and ensembling allows us to surpass the state of the art on both the CoNLL {`}14 benchmark and the JFLEG task. We present systematic analysis that compares the two approaches to data generation and highlights the effectiveness of ensembling.
State-of-the-art LSTM language models trained on large corpora learn sequential contingencies in impressive detail, and have been shown to acquire a number of non-local grammatical dependencies with some success. Here we investigate whether supervision with hierarchical structure enhances learning of a range of grammatical dependencies, a question that has previously been addressed only for subject-verb agreement. Using controlled experimental methods from psycholinguistics, we compare the performance of word-based LSTM models versus Recurrent Neural Network Grammars (RNNGs) (Dyer et al. 2016) which represent hierarchical syntactic structure and use neural control to deploy it in left-to-right processing, on two classes of non-local grammatical dependencies in English{---}Negative Polarity licensing and Filler-Gap Dependencies{---}tested in a range of configurations. Using the same training data for both models, we find that the RNNG outperforms the LSTM on both types of grammatical dependencies and even learns many of the Island Constraints on the filler-gap dependency. Structural supervision thus provides data efficiency advantages over purely string-based training of neural language models in acquiring human-like generalizations about non-local grammatical dependencies.
Exact structured inference with neural network scoring functions is computationally challenging but several methods have been proposed for approximating inference. One approach is to perform gradient descent with respect to the output structure directly (Belanger and McCallum, 2016). Another approach, proposed recently, is to train a neural network (an {``}inference network{''}) to perform inference (Tu and Gimpel, 2018). In this paper, we compare these two families of inference methods on three sequence labeling datasets. We choose sequence labeling because it permits us to use exact inference as a benchmark in terms of speed, accuracy, and search error. Across datasets, we demonstrate that inference networks achieve a better speed/accuracy/search error trade-off than gradient descent, while also being faster than exact inference at similar accuracy levels. We find further benefit by combining inference networks and gradient descent, using the former to provide a warm start for the latter.
Recent research has demonstrated that goal-oriented dialogue agents trained on large datasets can achieve striking performance when interacting with human users. In real world applications, however, it is important to ensure that the agent performs smoothly interacting with not only regular users but also those malicious ones who would attack the system through interactions in order to achieve goals for their own advantage. In this paper, we develop algorithms to evaluate the robustness of a dialogue agent by carefully designed attacks using adversarial agents. Those attacks are performed in both black-box and white-box settings. Furthermore, we demonstrate that adversarial training using our attacks can significantly improve the robustness of a goal-oriented dialogue system. On a case-study of the negotiation agent developed by (Lewis et al., 2017), our attacks reduced the average advantage of rewards between the attacker and the trained RL-based agent from 2.68 to -5.76 on a scale from -10 to 10 for randomized goals. Moreover, we show that with the adversarial training, we are able to improve the robustness of negotiation agents by 1.5 points on average against all our attacks.
Representing entities and relations in an embedding space is a well-studied approach for machine learning on relational data. Existing approaches, however, primarily focus on improving accuracy and overlook other aspects such as robustness and interpretability. In this paper, we propose adversarial modifications for link prediction models: identifying the fact to add into or remove from the knowledge graph that changes the prediction for a target fact after the model is retrained. Using these single modifications of the graph, we identify the most influential fact for a predicted link and evaluate the sensitivity of the model to the addition of fake facts. We introduce an efficient approach to estimate the effect of such modifications by approximating the change in the embeddings when the knowledge graph changes. To avoid the combinatorial search over all possible facts, we train a network to decode embeddings to their corresponding graph components, allowing the use of gradient-based optimization to identify the adversarial modification. We use these techniques to evaluate the robustness of link prediction models (by measuring sensitivity to additional facts), study interpretability through the facts most responsible for predictions (by identifying the most influential neighbors), and detect incorrect facts in the knowledge base.
Neural word representations are at the core of many state-of-the-art natural language processing models. A widely used approach is to pre-train, store and look up word or character embedding matrices. While useful, such representations occupy huge memory making it hard to deploy on-device and often do not generalize to unknown words due to vocabulary pruning. In this paper, we propose a skip-gram based architecture coupled with Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH) projections to learn efficient dynamically computable representations. Our model does not need to store lookup tables as representations are computed on-the-fly and require low memory footprint. The representations can be trained in an unsupervised fashion and can be easily transferred to other NLP tasks. For qualitative evaluation, we analyze the nearest neighbors of the word representations and discover semantically similar words even with misspellings. For quantitative evaluation, we plug our transferable projections into a simple LSTM and run it on multiple NLP tasks and show how our transferable projections achieve better performance compared to prior work.
Semantic role labeling (SRL) is a task to recognize all the predicate-argument pairs of a sentence, which has been in a performance improvement bottleneck after a series of latest works were presented. This paper proposes a novel syntax-agnostic SRL model enhanced by the proposed associated memory network (AMN), which makes use of inter-sentence attention of label-known associated sentences as a kind of memory to further enhance dependency-based SRL. In detail, we use sentences and their labels from train dataset as an associated memory cue to help label the target sentence. Furthermore, we compare several associated sentences selecting strategies and label merging methods in AMN to find and utilize the label of associated sentences while attending them. By leveraging the attentive memory from known training data, Our full model reaches state-of-the-art on CoNLL-2009 benchmark datasets for syntax-agnostic setting, showing a new effective research line of SRL enhancement other than exploiting external resources such as well pre-trained language models.
Sequence tagging models for constituent parsing are faster, but less accurate than other types of parsers. In this work, we address the following weaknesses of such constituent parsers: (a) high error rates around closing brackets of long constituents, (b) large label sets, leading to sparsity, and (c) error propagation arising from greedy decoding. To effectively close brackets, we train a model that learns to switch between tagging schemes. To reduce sparsity, we decompose the label set and use multi-task learning to jointly learn to predict sublabels. Finally, we mitigate issues from greedy decoding through auxiliary losses and sentence-level fine-tuning with policy gradient. Combining these techniques, we clearly surpass the performance of sequence tagging constituent parsers on the English and Chinese Penn Treebanks, and reduce their parsing time even further. On the SPMRL datasets, we observe even greater improvements across the board, including a new state of the art on Basque, Hebrew, Polish and Swedish.
Named entity recognition (NER) in Chinese is essential but difficult because of the lack of natural delimiters. Therefore, Chinese Word Segmentation (CWS) is usually considered as the first step for Chinese NER. However, models based on word-level embeddings and lexicon features often suffer from segmentation errors and out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words. In this paper, we investigate a Convolutional Attention Network called CAN for Chinese NER, which consists of a character-based convolutional neural network (CNN) with local-attention layer and a gated recurrent unit (GRU) with global self-attention layer to capture the information from adjacent characters and sentence contexts. Also, compared to other models, not depending on any external resources like lexicons and employing small size of char embeddings make our model more practical. Extensive experimental results show that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods without word embedding and external lexicon resources on different domain datasets including Weibo, MSRA and Chinese Resume NER dataset.
We propose a simple and accurate model for coordination boundary identification. Our model decomposes the task into three sub-tasks during training; finding a coordinator, identifying inside boundaries of a pair of conjuncts, and selecting outside boundaries of it. For inference, we make use of probabilities of coordinators and conjuncts in the CKY parsing to find the optimal combination of coordinate structures. Experimental results demonstrate that our model achieves state-of-the-art results, ensuring that the global structure of coordinations is consistent.
An event-noun is a noun that has an argument structure similar to a predicate. Recent works, including those considered state-of-the-art, ignore event-nouns or build a single model for solving both Japanese predicate argument structure analysis (PASA) and event-noun argument structure analysis (ENASA). However, because there are interactions between predicates and event-nouns, it is not sufficient to target only predicates. To address this problem, we present a multi-task learning method for PASA and ENASA. Our multi-task models improved the performance of both tasks compared to a single-task model by sharing knowledge from each task. Moreover, in PASA, our models achieved state-of-the-art results in overall F1 scores on the NAIST Text Corpus. In addition, this is the first work to employ neural networks in ENASA.
The performance of a Part-of-speech (POS) tagger is highly dependent on the domain of the processed text, and for many domains there is no or only very little training data available. This work addresses the problem of POS tagging noisy user-generated text using a neural network. We propose an architecture that trains an out-of-domain model on a large newswire corpus, and transfers those weights by using them as a prior for a model trained on the target domain (a data-set of German Tweets) for which there is very little annotations available. The neural network has a standard bidirectional LSTM at its core. However, we find it crucial to also encode a set of task-specific features, and to obtain reliable (source-domain and target-domain) word representations. Experiments with different regularization techniques such as early stopping, dropout and fine-tuning the domain adaptation prior weights are conducted. Our best model uses external weights from the out-of-domain model, as well as feature embeddings, pre-trained word and sub-word embeddings and achieves a tagging accuracy of slightly over 90{\%}, improving on the previous state of the art for this task.
This paper introduces a new task {--} Chinese address parsing {--} the task of mapping Chinese addresses into semantically meaningful chunks. While it is possible to model this problem using a conventional sequence labelling approach, our observation is that there exist complex dependencies between labels that cannot be readily captured by a simple linear-chain structure. We investigate neural structured prediction models with latent variables to capture such rich structural information within Chinese addresses. We create and publicly release a new dataset consisting of 15K Chinese addresses, and conduct extensive experiments on the dataset to investigate the model effectiveness and robustness. We release our code and data at http://statnlp.org/research/sp.
On the one hand, nowadays, fake news articles are easily propagated through various online media platforms and have become a grand threat to the trustworthiness of information. On the other hand, our understanding of the language of fake news is still minimal. Incorporating hierarchical discourse-level structure of fake and real news articles is one crucial step toward a better understanding of how these articles are structured. Nevertheless, this has rarely been investigated in the fake news detection domain and faces tremendous challenges. First, existing methods for capturing discourse-level structure rely on annotated corpora which are not available for fake news datasets. Second, how to extract out useful information from such discovered structures is another challenge. To address these challenges, we propose Hierarchical Discourse-level Structure for Fake news detection. HDSF learns and constructs a discourse-level structure for fake/real news articles in an automated and data-driven manner. Moreover, we identify insightful structure-related properties, which can explain the discovered structures and boost our understating of fake news. Conducted experiments show the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Further structural analysis suggests that real and fake news present substantial differences in the hierarchical discourse-level structures.
Sentence fusion is the task of joining several independent sentences into a single coherent text. Current datasets for sentence fusion are small and insufficient for training modern neural models. In this paper, we propose a method for automatically-generating fusion examples from raw text and present DiscoFuse, a large scale dataset for discourse-based sentence fusion. We author a set of rules for identifying a diverse set of discourse phenomena in raw text, and decomposing the text into two independent sentences. We apply our approach on two document collections: Wikipedia and Sports articles, yielding 60 million fusion examples annotated with discourse information required to reconstruct the fused text. We develop a sequence-to-sequence model on DiscoFuse and thoroughly analyze its strengths and weaknesses with respect to the various discourse phenomena, using both automatic as well as human evaluation. Finally, we conduct transfer learning experiments with WebSplit, a recent dataset for text simplification. We show that pretraining on DiscoFuse substantially improves performance on WebSplit when viewed as a sentence fusion task.
Sequence-to-sequence models for open-domain dialogue generation tend to favor generic, uninformative responses. Past work has focused on word frequency-based approaches to improving specificity, such as penalizing responses with only common words. In this work, we examine whether specificity is solely a frequency-related notion and find that more linguistically-driven specificity measures are better suited to improving response informativeness. However, we find that forcing a sequence-to-sequence model to be more specific can expose a host of other problems in the responses, including flawed discourse and implausible semantics. We rerank our model{'}s outputs using externally-trained classifiers targeting each of these identified factors. Experiments show that our final model using linguistically motivated specificity and plausibility reranking improves the informativeness, reasonableness, and grammatically of responses.
When reading a text, it is common to become stuck on unfamiliar words and phrases, such as polysemous words with novel senses, rarely used idioms, internet slang, or emerging entities. If we humans cannot figure out the meaning of those expressions from the immediate local context, we consult dictionaries for definitions or search documents or the web to find other global context to help in interpretation. Can machines help us do this work? Which type of context is more important for machines to solve the problem? To answer these questions, we undertake a task of describing a given phrase in natural language based on its local and global contexts. To solve this task, we propose a neural description model that consists of two context encoders and a description decoder. In contrast to the existing methods for non-standard English explanation [Ni+ 2017] and definition generation [Noraset+ 2017; Gadetsky+ 2018], our model appropriately takes important clues from both local and global contexts. Experimental results on three existing datasets (including WordNet, Oxford and Urban Dictionaries) and a dataset newly created from Wikipedia demonstrate the effectiveness of our method over previous work.
Current state of the art systems in NLP heavily rely on manually annotated datasets, which are expensive to construct. Very little work adequately exploits unannotated data {--} such as discourse markers between sentences {--} mainly because of data sparseness and ineffective extraction methods. In the present work, we propose a method to automatically discover sentence pairs with relevant discourse markers, and apply it to massive amounts of data. Our resulting dataset contains 174 discourse markers with at least 10k examples each, even for rare markers such as {``}coincidentally{''} or {``}amazingly{''}. We use the resulting data as supervision for learning transferable sentence embeddings. In addition, we show that even though sentence representation learning through prediction of discourse marker yields state of the art results across different transfer tasks, it{'}s not clear that our models made use of the semantic relation between sentences, thus leaving room for further improvements.
With the rapid development in deep learning, deep neural networks have been widely adopted in many real-life natural language applications. Under deep neural networks, a pre-defined vocabulary is required to vectorize text inputs. The canonical approach to select pre-defined vocabulary is based on the word frequency, where a threshold is selected to cut off the long tail distribution. However, we observed that such a simple approach could easily lead to under-sized vocabulary or over-sized vocabulary issues. Therefore, we are interested in understanding how the end-task classification accuracy is related to the vocabulary size and what is the minimum required vocabulary size to achieve a specific performance. In this paper, we provide a more sophisticated variational vocabulary dropout (VVD) based on variational dropout to perform vocabulary selection, which can intelligently select the subset of the vocabulary to achieve the required performance. To evaluate different algorithms on the newly proposed vocabulary selection problem, we propose two new metrics: Area Under Accuracy-Vocab Curve and Vocab Size under X{\%} Accuracy Drop. Through extensive experiments on various NLP classification tasks, our variational framework is shown to significantly outperform the frequency-based and other selection baselines on these metrics.
The idea of subword-based word embeddings has been proposed in the literature, mainly for solving the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) word problem observed in standard word-based word embeddings. In this paper, we propose a method of reconstructing pre-trained word embeddings using subword information that can effectively represent a large number of subword embeddings in a considerably small fixed space. The key techniques of our method are twofold: memory-shared embeddings and a variant of the key-value-query self-attention mechanism. Our experiments show that our reconstructed subword-based embeddings can successfully imitate well-trained word embeddings in a small fixed space while preventing quality degradation across several linguistic benchmark datasets, and can simultaneously predict effective embeddings of OOV words. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our reconstruction method when we apply them to downstream tasks.
While neural dependency parsers provide state-of-the-art accuracy for several languages, they still rely on large amounts of costly labeled training data. We demonstrate that in the small data regime, where uncertainty around parameter estimation and model prediction matters the most, Bayesian neural modeling is very effective. In order to overcome the computational and statistical costs of the approximate inference step in this framework, we utilize an efficient sampling procedure via stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics to generate samples from the approximated posterior. Moreover, we show that our Bayesian neural parser can be further improved when integrated into a multi-task parsing and POS tagging framework, designed to minimize task interference via an adversarial procedure. When trained and tested on 6 languages with less than 5k training instances, our parser consistently outperforms the strong bilstm baseline (Kiperwasser and Goldberg, 2016). Compared with the biaffine parser (Dozat et al., 2017) our model achieves an improvement of up to 3{\%} for Vietnames and Irish, while our multi-task model achieves an improvement of up to 9{\%} across five languages: Farsi, Russian, Turkish, Vietnamese, and Irish.
Multi-task learning (MTL) has achieved success over a wide range of problems, where the goal is to improve the performance of a primary task using a set of relevant auxiliary tasks. However, when the usefulness of the auxiliary tasks w.r.t. the primary task is not known a priori, the success of MTL models depends on the correct choice of these auxiliary tasks and also a balanced mixing ratio of these tasks during alternate training. These two problems could be resolved via manual intuition or hyper-parameter tuning over all combinatorial task choices, but this introduces inductive bias or is not scalable when the number of candidate auxiliary tasks is very large. To address these issues, we present AutoSeM, a two-stage MTL pipeline, where the first stage automatically selects the most useful auxiliary tasks via a Beta-Bernoulli multi-armed bandit with Thompson Sampling, and the second stage learns the training mixing ratio of these selected auxiliary tasks via a Gaussian Process based Bayesian optimization framework. We conduct several MTL experiments on the GLUE language understanding tasks, and show that our AutoSeM framework can successfully find relevant auxiliary tasks and automatically learn their mixing ratio, achieving significant performance boosts on several primary tasks. Finally, we present ablations for each stage of AutoSeM and analyze the learned auxiliary task choices.
How do typological properties such as word order and morphological case marking affect the ability of neural sequence models to acquire the syntax of a language? Cross-linguistic comparisons of RNNs{'} syntactic performance (e.g., on subject-verb agreement prediction) are complicated by the fact that any two languages differ in multiple typological properties, as well as by differences in training corpus. We propose a paradigm that addresses these issues: we create synthetic versions of English, which differ from English in one or more typological parameters, and generate corpora for those languages based on a parsed English corpus. We report a series of experiments in which RNNs were trained to predict agreement features for verbs in each of those synthetic languages. Among other findings, (1) performance was higher in subject-verb-object order (as in English) than in subject-object-verb order (as in Japanese), suggesting that RNNs have a recency bias; (2) predicting agreement with both subject and object (polypersonal agreement) improves over predicting each separately, suggesting that underlying syntactic knowledge transfers across the two tasks; and (3) overt morphological case makes agreement prediction significantly easier, regardless of word order.
Attention mechanisms have seen wide adoption in neural NLP models. In addition to improving predictive performance, these are often touted as affording transparency: models equipped with attention provide a distribution over attended-to input units, and this is often presented (at least implicitly) as communicating the relative importance of inputs. However, it is unclear what relationship exists between attention weights and model outputs. In this work we perform extensive experiments across a variety of NLP tasks that aim to assess the degree to which attention weights provide meaningful {``}explanations{''} for predictions. We find that they largely do not. For example, learned attention weights are frequently uncorrelated with gradient-based measures of feature importance, and one can identify very different attention distributions that nonetheless yield equivalent predictions. Our findings show that standard attention modules do not provide meaningful explanations and should not be treated as though they do.
Text-based adventure games provide a platform on which to explore reinforcement learning in the context of a combinatorial action space, such as natural language. We present a deep reinforcement learning architecture that represents the game state as a knowledge graph which is learned during exploration. This graph is used to prune the action space, enabling more efficient exploration. The question of which action to take can be reduced to a question-answering task, a form of transfer learning that pre-trains certain parts of our architecture. In experiments using the TextWorld framework, we show that our proposed technique can learn a control policy faster than baseline alternatives. We have also open-sourced our code at https://github.com/rajammanabrolu/KG-DQN.
Multi-head attention is appealing for its ability to jointly extract different types of information from multiple representation subspaces. Concerning the information aggregation, a common practice is to use a concatenation followed by a linear transformation, which may not fully exploit the expressiveness of multi-head attention. In this work, we propose to improve the information aggregation for multi-head attention with a more powerful routing-by-agreement algorithm. Specifically, the routing algorithm iteratively updates the proportion of how much a part (i.e. the distinct information learned from a specific subspace) should be assigned to a whole (i.e. the final output representation), based on the agreement between parts and wholes. Experimental results on linguistic probing tasks and machine translation tasks prove the superiority of the advanced information aggregation over the standard linear transformation.
We describe a new semantic parsing setting that allows users to query the system using both natural language questions and actions within a graphical user interface. Multiple time series belonging to an entity of interest are stored in a database and the user interacts with the system to obtain a better understanding of the entity{'}s state and behavior, entailing sequences of actions and questions whose answers may depend on previous factual or navigational interactions. We design an LSTM-based encoder-decoder architecture that models context dependency through copying mechanisms and multiple levels of attention over inputs and previous outputs. When trained to predict tokens using supervised learning, the proposed architecture substantially outperforms standard sequence generation baselines. Training the architecture using policy gradient leads to further improvements in performance, reaching a sequence-level accuracy of 88.7{\%} on artificial data and 74.8{\%} on real data.
Identifying the intent of a citation in scientific papers (e.g., background information, use of methods, comparing results) is critical for machine reading of individual publications and automated analysis of the scientific literature. We propose structural scaffolds, a multitask model to incorporate structural information of scientific papers into citations for effective classification of citation intents. Our model achieves a new state-of-the-art on an existing ACL anthology dataset (ACL-ARC) with a 13.3{\%} absolute increase in F1 score, without relying on external linguistic resources or hand-engineered features as done in existing methods. In addition, we introduce a new dataset of citation intents (SciCite) which is more than five times larger and covers multiple scientific domains compared with existing datasets. Our code and data are available at: https://github.com/allenai/scicite.
Reasoning about implied relationships (e.g. paraphrastic, common sense, encyclopedic) between pairs of words is crucial for many cross-sentence inference problems. This paper proposes new methods for learning and using embeddings of word pairs that implicitly represent background knowledge about such relationships. Our pairwise embeddings are computed as a compositional function of each word{'}s representation, which is learned by maximizing the pointwise mutual information (PMI) with the contexts in which the the two words co-occur. We add these representations to the cross-sentence attention layer of existing inference models (e.g. BiDAF for QA, ESIM for NLI), instead of extending or replacing existing word embeddings. Experiments show a gain of 2.7{\%} on the recently released SQuAD 2.0 and 1.3{\%} on MultiNLI. Our representations also aid in better generalization with gains of around 6-7{\%} on adversarial SQuAD datasets, and 8.8{\%} on the adversarial entailment test set by Glockner et al. (2018).
Inducing diversity in the task of paraphrasing is an important problem in NLP with applications in data augmentation and conversational agents. Previous paraphrasing approaches have mainly focused on the issue of generating semantically similar paraphrases while paying little attention towards diversity. In fact, most of the methods rely solely on top-k beam search sequences to obtain a set of paraphrases. The resulting set, however, contains many structurally similar sentences. In this work, we focus on the task of obtaining highly diverse paraphrases while not compromising on paraphrasing quality. We provide a novel formulation of the problem in terms of monotone submodular function maximization, specifically targeted towards the task of paraphrasing. Additionally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for data augmentation on multiple tasks such as intent classification and paraphrase recognition. In order to drive further research, we have made the source code available.
Modeling what makes a request persuasive - eliciting the desired response from a reader - is critical to the study of propaganda, behavioral economics, and advertising. Yet current models can{'}t quantify the persuasiveness of requests or extract successful persuasive strategies. Building on theories of persuasion, we propose a neural network to quantify persuasiveness and identify the persuasive strategies in advocacy requests. Our semi-supervised hierarchical neural network model is supervised by the number of people persuaded to take actions and partially supervised at the sentence level with human-labeled rhetorical strategies. Our method outperforms several baselines, uncovers persuasive strategies - offering increased interpretability of persuasive speech - and has applications for other situations with document-level supervision but only partial sentence supervision.
We introduce Recursive Routing Networks (RRNs), which are modular, adaptable models that learn effectively in diverse environments. RRNs consist of a set of functions, typically organized into a grid, and a meta-learner decision-making component called the router. The model jointly optimizes the parameters of the functions and the meta-learner{'}s policy for routing inputs through those functions. RRNs can be incorporated into existing architectures in a number of ways; we explore adding them to word representation layers, recurrent network hidden layers, and classifier layers. Our evaluation task is natural language inference (NLI). Using the MultiNLI corpus, we show that an RRN{'}s routing decisions reflect the high-level genre structure of that corpus. To show that RRNs can learn to specialize to more fine-grained semantic distinctions, we introduce a new corpus of NLI examples involving implicative predicates, and show that the model components become fine-tuned to the inferential signatures that are characteristic of these predicates.
AMR-to-text generation is a problem recently introduced to the NLP community, in which the goal is to generate sentences from Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graphs. Sequence-to-sequence models can be used to this end by converting the AMR graphs to strings. Approaching the problem while working directly with graphs requires the use of graph-to-sequence models that encode the AMR graph into a vector representation. Such encoding has been shown to be beneficial in the past, and unlike sequential encoding, it allows us to explicitly capture reentrant structures in the AMR graphs. We investigate the extent to which reentrancies (nodes with multiple parents) have an impact on AMR-to-text generation by comparing graph encoders to tree encoders, where reentrancies are not preserved. We show that improvements in the treatment of reentrancies and long-range dependencies contribute to higher overall scores for graph encoders. Our best model achieves 24.40 BLEU on LDC2015E86, outperforming the state of the art by 1.1 points and 24.54 BLEU on LDC2017T10, outperforming the state of the art by 1.24 points.
There is growing evidence that changes in speech and language may be early markers of dementia, but much of the previous NLP work in this area has been limited by the size of the available datasets. Here, we compare several methods of domain adaptation to augment a small French dataset of picture descriptions (n = 57) with a much larger English dataset (n = 550), for the task of automatically distinguishing participants with dementia from controls. The first challenge is to identify a set of features that transfer across languages; in addition to previously used features based on information units, we introduce a new set of features to model the order in which information units are produced by dementia patients and controls. These concept-based language model features improve classification performance in both English and French separately, and the best result (AUC = 0.89) is achieved using the multilingual training set with a combination of information and language model features.
To make machines better understand sentiments, research needs to move from polarity identification to understanding the reasons that underlie the expression of sentiment. Categorizing the goals or needs of humans is one way to explain the expression of sentiment in text. Humans are good at understanding situations described in natural language and can easily connect them to the character{'}s psychological needs using commonsense knowledge. We present a novel method to extract, rank, filter and select multi-hop relation paths from a commonsense knowledge resource to interpret the expression of sentiment in terms of their underlying human needs. We efficiently integrate the acquired knowledge paths in a neural model that interfaces context representations with knowledge using a gated attention mechanism. We assess the model{'}s performance on a recently published dataset for categorizing human needs. Selectively integrating knowledge paths boosts performance and establishes a new state-of-the-art. Our model offers interpretability through the learned attention map over commonsense knowledge paths. Human evaluation highlights the relevance of the encoded knowledge.
Incorporating domain knowledge is vital in building successful natural language processing (NLP) applications. Many times, cross-domain application of a tool results in poor performance as the tool does not account for domain-specific attributes. The clinical domain is challenging in this aspect due to specialized medical terms and nomenclature, shorthand notation, fragmented text, and a variety of writing styles used by different medical units. Temporal resolution is an NLP task that, in general, is domain-agnostic because temporal information is represented using a limited lexicon. However, domain-specific aspects of temporal resolution are present in clinical texts. Here we explore parsing issues that arose when running our system, a tool built on Newswire text, on clinical notes in the THYME corpus. Many parsing issues were straightforward to correct; however, a few code changes resulted in a cascading series of parsing errors that had to be resolved before an improvement in performance was observed, revealing the complexity temporal resolution and rule-based parsing. Our system now outperforms current state-of-the-art systems on the THYME corpus with little change in its performance on Newswire texts.
Most information extraction methods focus on binary relations expressed within single sentences. In high-value domains, however, n-ary relations are of great demand (e.g., drug-gene-mutation interactions in precision oncology). Such relations often involve entity mentions that are far apart in the document, yet existing work on cross-sentence relation extraction is generally confined to small text spans (e.g., three consecutive sentences), which severely limits recall. In this paper, we propose a novel multiscale neural architecture for document-level n-ary relation extraction. Our system combines representations learned over various text spans throughout the document and across the subrelation hierarchy. Widening the system{'}s purview to the entire document maximizes potential recall. Moreover, by integrating weak signals across the document, multiscale modeling increases precision, even in the presence of noisy labels from distant supervision. Experiments on biomedical machine reading show that our approach substantially outperforms previous n-ary relation extraction methods.
How do we know if a particular medical treatment actually works? Ideally one would consult all available evidence from relevant clinical trials. Unfortunately, such results are primarily disseminated in natural language scientific articles, imposing substantial burden on those trying to make sense of them. In this paper, we present a new task and corpus for making this unstructured published scientific evidence actionable. The task entails inferring reported findings from a full-text article describing randomized controlled trials (RCT) with respect to a given intervention, comparator, and outcome of interest, e.g., inferring if a given article provides evidence supporting the use of aspirin to reduce risk of stroke, as compared to placebo. We present a new corpus for this task comprising 10,000+ prompts coupled with full-text articles describing RCTs. Results using a suite of baseline models {---} ranging from heuristic (rule-based) approaches to attentive neural architectures {---} demonstrate the difficulty of the task, which we believe largely owes to the lengthy, technical input texts. To facilitate further work on this important, challenging problem we make the corpus, documentation, a website and leaderboard, and all source code for baselines and evaluation publicly available.
To capture salient contextual information for spoken language understanding (SLU) of a dialogue, we propose time-aware models that automatically learn the latent time-decay function of the history without a manual time-decay function. We also propose a method to identify and label the current speaker to improve the SLU accuracy. In experiments on the benchmark dataset used in Dialog State Tracking Challenge 4, the proposed models achieved significantly higher F1 scores than the state-of-the-art contextual models. Finally, we analyze the effectiveness of the introduced models in detail. The analysis demonstrates that the proposed methods were effective to improve SLU accuracy individually.
Recent work in Dialogue Act classification has treated the task as a sequence labeling problem using hierarchical deep neural networks. We build on this prior work by leveraging the effectiveness of a context-aware self-attention mechanism coupled with a hierarchical recurrent neural network. We conduct extensive evaluations on standard Dialogue Act classification datasets and show significant improvement over state-of-the-art results on the Switchboard Dialogue Act (SwDA) Corpus. We also investigate the impact of different utterance-level representation learning methods and show that our method is effective at capturing utterance-level semantic text representations while maintaining high accuracy.
The majority of current systems for end-to-end dialog generation focus on response quality without an explicit control over the affective content of the responses. In this paper, we present an affect-driven dialog system, which generates emotional responses in a controlled manner using a continuous representation of emotions. The system achieves this by modeling emotions at a word and sequence level using: (1) a vector representation of the desired emotion, (2) an affect regularizer, which penalizes neutral words, and (3) an affect sampling method, which forces the neural network to generate diverse words that are emotionally relevant. During inference, we use a re-ranking procedure that aims to extract the most emotionally relevant responses using a human-in-the-loop optimization process. We study the performance of our system in terms of both quantitative (BLEU score and response diversity), and qualitative (emotional appropriateness) measures.
Recent end-to-end task oriented dialog systems use memory architectures to incorporate external knowledge in their dialogs. Current work makes simplifying assumptions about the structure of the knowledge base, such as the use of triples to represent knowledge, and combines dialog utterances (context) as well as knowledge base (KB) results as part of the same memory. This causes an explosion in the memory size, and makes the reasoning over memory harder. In addition, such a memory design forces hierarchical properties of the data to be fit into a triple structure of memory. This requires the memory reader to infer relationships across otherwise connected attributes. In this paper we relax the strong assumptions made by existing architectures and separate memories used for modeling dialog context and KB results. Instead of using triples to store KB results, we introduce a novel multi-level memory architecture consisting of cells for each query and their corresponding results. The multi-level memory first addresses queries, followed by results and finally each key-value pair within a result. We conduct detailed experiments on three publicly available task oriented dialog data sets and we find that our method conclusively outperforms current state-of-the-art models. We report a 15-25{\%} increase in both entity F1 and BLEU scores.
Success of deep learning techniques have renewed the interest in development of dialogue systems. However, current systems struggle to have consistent long term conversations with the users and fail to build rapport. Topic spotting, the task of automatically inferring the topic of a conversation, has been shown to be helpful in making dialog system more engaging and efficient. We propose a hierarchical model with self attention for topic spotting. Experiments on the Switchboard corpus show the superior performance of our model over previously proposed techniques for topic spotting and deep models for text classification. Additionally, in contrast to offline processing of dialog, we also analyze the performance of our model in a more realistic setting i.e. in an online setting where the topic is identified in real time as the dialog progresses. Results show that our model is able to generalize even with limited information in the online setting.
We consider neural language generation under a novel problem setting: generating the words of a sentence according to the order of their first appearance in its lexicalized PCFG parse tree, in a depth-first, left-to-right manner. Unlike previous tree-based language generation methods, our approach is both (i) top-down and (ii) explicitly generating syntactic structure at the same time. In addition, our method combines neural model with symbolic approach: word choice at each step is constrained by its predicted syntactic function. We applied our model to the task of dialog response generation, and found it significantly improves over sequence-to-sequence baseline, in terms of diversity and relevance. We also investigated the effect of lexicalization on language generation, and found that lexicalization schemes that give priority to content words have certain advantages over those focusing on dependency relations.
Domain classification is the task to map spoken language utterances to one of the natural language understanding domains in intelligent personal digital assistants (IPDAs). This is observed in mainstream IPDAs in industry and third-party domains are developed to enhance the capability of the IPDAs. As more and more new domains are developed very frequently, how to continuously accommodate the new domains still remains challenging. Moreover, if one wants to use personalized information dynamically for better domain classification, it is infeasible to directly adopt existing continual learning approaches. In this paper, we propose CoNDA, a neural-based approach for continuous domain adaption with normalization and regularization. Unlike existing methods that often conduct full model parameter update, CoNDA only updates the necessary parameters in the model for the new domains. Empirical evaluation shows that CoNDA achieves high accuracy on both the accommodated new domains and the existing known domains for which input samples come with personal information, and outperforms the baselines by a large margin.
One of the first steps in the utterance interpretation pipeline of many task-oriented conversational AI systems is to identify user intents and the corresponding slots. Since data collection for machine learning models for this task is time-consuming, it is desirable to make use of existing data in a high-resource language to train models in low-resource languages. However, development of such models has largely been hindered by the lack of multilingual training data. In this paper, we present a new data set of 57k annotated utterances in English (43k), Spanish (8.6k) and Thai (5k) across the domains weather, alarm, and reminder. We use this data set to evaluate three different cross-lingual transfer methods: (1) translating the training data, (2) using cross-lingual pre-trained embeddings, and (3) a novel method of using a multilingual machine translation encoder as contextual word representations. We find that given several hundred training examples in the the target language, the latter two methods outperform translating the training data. Further, in very low-resource settings, multilingual contextual word representations give better results than using cross-lingual static embeddings. We also compare the cross-lingual methods to using monolingual resources in the form of contextual ELMo representations and find that given just small amounts of target language data, this method outperforms all cross-lingual methods, which highlights the need for more sophisticated cross-lingual methods.
Evaluating open-domain dialogue systems is difficult due to the diversity of possible correct answers. Automatic metrics such as BLEU correlate weakly with human annotations, resulting in a significant bias across different models and datasets. Some researchers resort to human judgment experimentation for assessing response quality, which is expensive, time consuming, and not scalable. Moreover, judges tend to evaluate a small number of dialogues, meaning that minor differences in evaluation configuration may lead to dissimilar results. In this paper, we present interpretable metrics for evaluating topic coherence by making use of distributed sentence representations. Furthermore, we introduce calculable approximations of human judgment based on conversational coherence by adopting state-of-the-art entailment techniques. Results show that our metrics can be used as a surrogate for human judgment, making it easy to evaluate dialogue systems on large-scale datasets and allowing an unbiased estimate for the quality of the responses.
Recent advances in Question Answering have lead to the development of very complex models which compute rich representations for query and documents by capturing all pairwise interactions between query and document words. This makes these models expensive in space and time, and in practice one has to restrict the length of the documents that can be fed to these models. Such models have also been recently employed for the task of predicting dialog responses from available background documents (e.g., Holl-E dataset). However, here the documents are longer, thereby rendering these complex models infeasible except in select restricted settings. In order to overcome this, we use standard simple models which do not capture all pairwise interactions, but learn to emulate certain characteristics of a complex teacher network. Specifically, we first investigate the conicity of representations learned by a complex model and observe that it is significantly lower than that of simpler models. Based on this insight, we modify the simple architecture to mimic this characteristic. We go further by using knowledge distillation approaches, where the simple model acts as a student and learns to match the output from the complex teacher network. We experiment with the Holl-E dialog data set and show that by mimicking characteristics and matching outputs from a teacher, even a simple network can give improved performance.
We focus on improving name tagging for low-resource languages using annotations from related languages. Previous studies either directly project annotations from a source language to a target language using cross-lingual representations or use a shared encoder in a multitask network to transfer knowledge. These approaches inevitably introduce noise to the target language annotation due to mismatched source-target sentence structures. To effectively transfer the resources, we develop a new neural architecture that leverages multi-level adversarial transfer: (1) word-level adversarial training, which projects source language words into the same semantic space as those of the target language without using any parallel corpora or bilingual gazetteers, and (2) sentence-level adversarial training, which yields language-agnostic sequential features. Our neural architecture outperforms previous approaches on CoNLL data sets. Moreover, on 10 low-resource languages, our approach achieves up to 16{\%} absolute F-score gain over all high-performing baselines on cross-lingual transfer without using any target-language resources.
In neural machine translation (NMT), monolingual data are usually exploited through a so-called back-translation: sentences in the target language are translated into the source language to synthesize new parallel data. While this method provides more training data to better model the target language, on the source side, it only exploits translations that the NMT system is already able to generate using a model trained on existing parallel data. In this work, we assume that new translation knowledge can be extracted from monolingual data, without relying at all on existing parallel data. We propose a new algorithm for extracting from monolingual data what we call partial translations: pairs of source and target sentences that contain sequences of tokens that are translations of each other. Our algorithm is fully unsupervised and takes only source and target monolingual data as input. Our empirical evaluation points out that our partial translations can be used in combination with back-translation to further improve NMT models. Furthermore, while partial translations are particularly useful for low-resource language pairs, they can also be successfully exploited in resource-rich scenarios to improve translation quality.
We describe a cross-lingual transfer method for dependency parsing that takes into account the problem of word order differences between source and target languages. Our model only relies on the Bible, a considerably smaller parallel data than the commonly used parallel data in transfer methods. We use the concatenation of projected trees from the Bible corpus, and the gold-standard treebanks in multiple source languages along with cross-lingual word representations. We demonstrate that reordering the source treebanks before training on them for a target language improves the accuracy of languages outside the European language family. Our experiments on 68 treebanks (38 languages) in the Universal Dependencies corpus achieve a high accuracy for all languages. Among them, our experiments on 16 treebanks of 12 non-European languages achieve an average UAS absolute improvement of 3.3{\%} over a state-of-the-art method.
Adversarial training has shown impressive success in learning bilingual dictionary without any parallel data by mapping monolingual embeddings to a shared space. However, recent work has shown superior performance for non-adversarial methods in more challenging language pairs. In this work, we revisit adversarial autoencoder for unsupervised word translation and propose two novel extensions to it that yield more stable training and improved results. Our method includes regularization terms to enforce cycle consistency and input reconstruction, and puts the target encoders as an adversary against the corresponding discriminator. Extensive experimentations with European, non-European and low-resource languages show that our method is more robust and achieves better performance than recently proposed adversarial and non-adversarial approaches.
Transfer learning approaches for Neural Machine Translation (NMT) train a NMT model on an assisting language-target language pair (parent model) which is later fine-tuned for the source language-target language pair of interest (child model), with the target language being the same. In many cases, the assisting language has a different word order from the source language. We show that divergent word order adversely limits the benefits from transfer learning when little to no parallel corpus between the source and target language is available. To bridge this divergence, we propose to pre-order the assisting language sentences to match the word order of the source language and train the parent model. Our experiments on many language pairs show that bridging the word order gap leads to significant improvement in the translation quality in extremely low-resource scenarios.
Multilingual Neural Machine Translation enables training a single model that supports translation from multiple source languages into multiple target languages. We perform extensive experiments in training massively multilingual NMT models, involving up to 103 distinct languages and 204 translation directions simultaneously. We explore different setups for training such models and analyze the trade-offs between translation quality and various modeling decisions. We report results on the publicly available TED talks multilingual corpus where we show that massively multilingual many-to-many models are effective in low resource settings, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art while supporting up to 59 languages in 116 translation directions in a single model. Our experiments on a large-scale dataset with 103 languages, 204 trained directions and up to one million examples per direction also show promising results, surpassing strong bilingual baselines and encouraging future work on massively multilingual NMT.
There is no consensus on the state-of-the-art approach to historical text normalization. Many techniques have been proposed, including rule-based methods, distance metrics, character-based statistical machine translation, and neural encoder{--}decoder models, but studies have used different datasets, different evaluation methods, and have come to different conclusions. This paper presents the largest study of historical text normalization done so far. We critically survey the existing literature and report experiments on eight languages, comparing systems spanning all categories of proposed normalization techniques, analysing the effect of training data quantity, and using different evaluation methods. The datasets and scripts are made publicly available.
It is well-known that distributional semantic approaches have difficulty in distinguishing between synonyms and antonyms (Grefenstette, 1992; Pad{\'o} and Lapata, 2003). Recent work has shown that supervision available in English for this task (e.g., lexical resources) can be transferred to other languages via cross-lingual word embeddings. However, this kind of transfer misses monolingual distributional information available in a target language, such as contrast relations that are indicative of antonymy (e.g. hot ... while ... cold). In this work, we improve the transfer by exploiting monolingual information, expressed in the form of co-occurrences with discourse markers that convey contrast. Our approach makes use of less than a dozen markers, which can easily be obtained for many languages. Compared to a baseline using only cross-lingual embeddings, we show absolute improvements of 4{--}10{\%} F1-score in Vietnamese and Hindi.
Cross-lingual word vectors are typically obtained by fitting an orthogonal matrix that maps the entries of a bilingual dictionary from a source to a target vector space. Word vectors, however, are most commonly used for sentence or document-level representations that are calculated as the weighted average of word embeddings. In this paper, we propose an alternative to word-level mapping that better reflects sentence-level cross-lingual similarity. We incorporate context in the transformation matrix by directly mapping the averaged embeddings of aligned sentences in a parallel corpus. We also implement cross-lingual mapping of deep contextualized word embeddings using parallel sentences with word alignments. In our experiments, both approaches resulted in cross-lingual sentence embeddings that outperformed context-independent word mapping in sentence translation retrieval. Furthermore, the sentence-level transformation could be used for word-level mapping without loss in word translation quality.
We introduce Rosita, a method to produce multilingual contextual word representations by training a single language model on text from multiple languages. Our method combines the advantages of contextual word representations with those of multilingual representation learning. We produce language models from dissimilar language pairs (English/Arabic and English/Chinese) and use them in dependency parsing, semantic role labeling, and named entity recognition, with comparisons to monolingual and non-contextual variants. Our results provide further evidence for the benefits of polyglot learning, in which representations are shared across multiple languages.
The existence of universal models to describe the syntax of languages has been debated for decades. The availability of resources such as the Universal Dependencies treebanks and the World Atlas of Language Structures make it possible to study the plausibility of universal grammar from the perspective of dependency parsing. Our work investigates the use of high-level language descriptions in the form of typological features for multilingual dependency parsing. Our experiments on multilingual parsing for 40 languages show that typological information can indeed guide parsers to share information between similar languages beyond simple language identification.
Source Code Summarization is the task of writing short, natural language descriptions of source code. The main use for these descriptions is in software documentation e.g. the one-sentence Java method descriptions in JavaDocs. Code summarization is rapidly becoming a popular research problem, but progress is restrained due to a lack of suitable datasets. In addition, a lack of community standards for creating datasets leads to confusing and unreproducible research results {--} we observe swings in performance of more than 33{\%} due only to changes in dataset design. In this paper, we make recommendations for these standards from experimental results. We release a dataset based on prior work of over 2.1m pairs of Java methods and one sentence method descriptions from over 28k Java projects. We describe the dataset and point out key differences from natural language data, to guide and support future researchers.
Recent work in the field of automatic summarization and headline generation focuses on maximizing ROUGE scores for various news datasets. We present an alternative, extrinsic, evaluation metric for this task, Answering Performance for Evaluation of Summaries. APES utilizes recent progress in the field of reading-comprehension to quantify the ability of a summary to answer a set of manually created questions regarding central entities in the source article. We first analyze the strength of this metric by comparing it to known manual evaluation metrics. We then present an end-to-end neural abstractive model that maximizes APES, while increasing ROUGE scores to competitive results.
Neural abstractive summarizers generate summary texts using a language model conditioned on the input source text, and have recently achieved high ROUGE scores on benchmark summarization datasets. We investigate how they achieve this performance with respect to human-written gold-standard abstracts, and whether the systems are able to understand deeper syntactic and semantic structures. We generate a set of contrastive summaries which are perturbed, deficient versions of human-written summaries, and test whether existing neural summarizers score them more highly than the human-written summaries. We analyze their performance on different datasets and find that these systems fail to understand the source text, in a majority of the cases.
We present a new neural model for text summarization that first extracts sentences from a document and then compresses them. The pro-posed model offers a balance that sidesteps thedifficulties in abstractive methods while gener-ating more concise summaries than extractivemethods. In addition, our model dynamically determines the length of the output summary based on the gold summaries it observes during training and does not require length constraints typical to extractive summarization. The model achieves state-of-the-art results on the CNN/DailyMail and Newsroom datasets, improving over current extractive and abstractive methods. Human evaluations demonstratethat our model generates concise and informa-tive summaries. We also make available a new dataset of oracle compressive summaries derived automatically from the CNN/DailyMailreference summaries.
In this work, we define the task of teaser generation and provide an evaluation benchmark and baseline systems for the process of generating teasers. A teaser is a short reading suggestion for an article that is illustrative and includes curiosity-arousing elements to entice potential readers to read particular news items. Teasers are one of the main vehicles for transmitting news to social media users. We compile a novel dataset of teasers by systematically accumulating tweets and selecting those that conform to the teaser definition. We have compared a number of neural abstractive architectures on the task of teaser generation and the overall best performing system is See et al. seq2seq with pointer network.
Cross-referencing, which links passages of text to other related passages, can be a valuable study aid for facilitating comprehension of a text. However, cross-referencing requires first, a comprehensive thematic knowledge of the entire corpus, and second, a focused search through the corpus specifically to find such useful connections. Due to this, cross-reference resources are prohibitively expensive and exist only for the most well-studied texts (e.g. religious texts). We develop a topic-based system for automatically producing candidate cross-references which can be easily verified by human annotators. Our system utilizes fine-grained topic modeling with thousands of highly nuanced and specific topics to identify verse pairs which are topically related. We demonstrate that our system can be cost effective compared to having annotators acquire the expertise necessary to produce cross-reference resources unaided.
In our everyday chit-chat, there is a conversation initiator, who proactively casts an initial utterance to start chatting. However, most existing conversation systems cannot play this role. Previous studies on conversation systems assume that the user always initiates conversation, and have placed emphasis on how to respond to the given user{'}s utterance. As a result, existing conversation systems become passive. Namely they continue waiting until being spoken to by the users. In this paper, we consider the system as a conversation initiator and propose a novel task of generating the initial utterance in open-domain non-task-oriented conversation. Here, in order not to make users bored, it is necessary to generate diverse utterances to initiate conversation without relying on boilerplate utterances like greetings. To this end, we propose to generate initial utterance by summarizing and chatting about news articles, which provide fresh and various contents everyday. To address the lack of the training data for this task, we constructed a novel large-scale dataset through crowd-sourcing. We also analyzed the dataset in detail to examine how humans initiate conversations (the dataset will be released to facilitate future research activities). We present several approaches to conversation initiation including information retrieval based and generation based models. Experimental results showed that the proposed models trained on our dataset performed reasonably well and outperformed baselines that utilize automatically collected training data in both automatic and manual evaluation.
Neural encoder-decoder models have been successful in natural language generation tasks. However, real applications of abstractive summarization must consider an additional constraint that a generated summary should not exceed a desired length. In this paper, we propose a simple but effective extension of a sinusoidal positional encoding (Vaswani et al., 2017) so that a neural encoder-decoder model preserves the length constraint. Unlike previous studies that learn length embeddings, the proposed method can generate a text of any length even if the target length is unseen in training data. The experimental results show that the proposed method is able not only to control generation length but also improve ROUGE scores.
To improve the training efficiency of hierarchical recurrent models without compromising their performance, we propose a strategy named as {``}the lower the simpler{''}, which is to simplify the baseline models by making the lower layers simpler than the upper layers. We carry out this strategy to simplify two typical hierarchical recurrent models, namely Hierarchical Recurrent Encoder-Decoder (HRED) and R-NET, whose basic building block is GRU. Specifically, we propose Scalar Gated Unit (SGU), which is a simplified variant of GRU, and use it to replace the GRUs at the middle layers of HRED and R-NET. Besides, we also use Fixed-size Ordinally-Forgetting Encoding (FOFE), which is an efficient encoding method without any trainable parameter, to replace the GRUs at the bottom layers of HRED and R-NET. The experimental results show that the simplified HRED and the simplified R-NET contain significantly less trainable parameters, consume significantly less training time, and achieve slightly better performance than their baseline models.
While evaluating an answer choice for Reading Comprehension task, other answer choices available for the question and the answers of related questions about the same paragraph often provide valuable information. In this paper, we propose a method to leverage the natural language relations between the answer choices, such as entailment and contradiction, to improve the performance of machine comprehension. We use a stand-alone question answering (QA) system to perform QA task and a Natural Language Inference (NLI) system to identify the relations between the choice pairs. Then we perform inference using an Integer Linear Programming (ILP)-based relational framework to re-evaluate the decisions made by the standalone QA system in light of the relations identified by the NLI system. We also propose a multitask learning model that learns both the tasks jointly.
Deep learning has emerged as a compelling solution to many NLP tasks with remarkable performances. However, due to their opacity, such models are hard to interpret and trust. Recent work on explaining deep models has introduced approaches to provide insights toward the model{'}s behaviour and predictions, which are helpful for assessing the reliability of the model{'}s predictions. However, such methods do not improve the model{'}s reliability. In this paper, we aim to teach the model to make the right prediction for the right reason by providing explanation training and ensuring the alignment of the model{'}s explanation with the ground truth explanation. Our experimental results on multiple tasks and datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, which produces more reliable predictions while delivering better results compared to traditionally trained models.
Learning multi-hop reasoning has been a key challenge for reading comprehension models, leading to the design of datasets that explicitly focus on it. Ideally, a model should not be able to perform well on a multi-hop question answering task without doing multi-hop reasoning. In this paper, we investigate two recently proposed datasets, WikiHop and HotpotQA. First, we explore sentence-factored models for these tasks; by design, these models cannot do multi-hop reasoning, but they are still able to solve a large number of examples in both datasets. Furthermore, we find spurious correlations in the unmasked version of WikiHop, which make it easy to achieve high performance considering only the questions and answers. Finally, we investigate one key difference between these datasets, namely span-based vs. multiple-choice formulations of the QA task. Multiple-choice versions of both datasets can be easily gamed, and two models we examine only marginally exceed a baseline in this setting. Overall, while these datasets are useful testbeds, high-performing models may not be learning as much multi-hop reasoning as previously thought.
Grammatical error correction (GEC) is one of the areas in natural language processing in which purely neural models have not yet superseded more traditional symbolic models. Hybrid systems combining phrase-based statistical machine translation (SMT) and neural sequence models are currently among the most effective approaches to GEC. However, both SMT and neural sequence-to-sequence models require large amounts of annotated data. Language model based GEC (LM-GEC) is a promising alternative which does not rely on annotated training data. We show how to improve LM-GEC by applying modelling techniques based on finite state transducers. We report further gains by rescoring with neural language models. We show that our methods developed for LM-GEC can also be used with SMT systems if annotated training data is available. Our best system outperforms the best published result on the CoNLL-2014 test set, and achieves far better relative improvements over the SMT baselines than previous hybrid systems.
Self-attention networks (SANs) have drawn increasing interest due to their high parallelization in computation and flexibility in modeling dependencies. SANs can be further enhanced with multi-head attention by allowing the model to attend to information from different representation subspaces. In this work, we propose novel convolutional self-attention networks, which offer SANs the abilities to 1) strengthen dependencies among neighboring elements, and 2) model the interaction between features extracted by multiple attention heads. Experimental results of machine translation on different language pairs and model settings show that our approach outperforms both the strong Transformer baseline and other existing models on enhancing the locality of SANs. Comparing with prior studies, the proposed model is parameter free in terms of introducing no more parameters.
Neural network models for many NLP tasks have grown increasingly complex in recent years, making training and deployment more difficult. A number of recent papers have questioned the necessity of such architectures and found that well-executed, simpler models are quite effective. We show that this is also the case for document classification: in a large-scale reproducibility study of several recent neural models, we find that a simple BiLSTM architecture with appropriate regularization yields accuracy and F1 that are either competitive or exceed the state of the art on four standard benchmark datasets. Surprisingly, our simple model is able to achieve these results without attention mechanisms. While these regularization techniques, borrowed from language modeling, are not novel, to our knowledge we are the first to apply them in this context. Our work provides an open-source platform and the foundation for future work in document classification.
Pre-trained language model representations have been successful in a wide range of language understanding tasks. In this paper, we examine different strategies to integrate pre-trained representations into sequence to sequence models and apply it to neural machine translation and abstractive summarization. We find that pre-trained representations are most effective when added to the encoder network which slows inference by only 14{\%}. Our experiments in machine translation show gains of up to 5.3 BLEU in a simulated resource-poor setup. While returns diminish with more labeled data, we still observe improvements when millions of sentence-pairs are available. Finally, on abstractive summarization we achieve a new state of the art on the full text version of CNN/DailyMail.
We improve the informativeness of models for conditional text generation using techniques from computational pragmatics. These techniques formulate language production as a game between speakers and listeners, in which a speaker should generate output text that a listener can use to correctly identify the original input that the text describes. While such approaches are widely used in cognitive science and grounded language learning, they have received less attention for more standard language generation tasks. We consider two pragmatic modeling methods for text generation: one where pragmatics is imposed by information preservation, and another where pragmatics is imposed by explicit modeling of distractors. We find that these methods improve the performance of strong existing systems for abstractive summarization and generation from structured meaning representations.
The variational autoencoder (VAE) imposes a probabilistic distribution (typically Gaussian) on the latent space and penalizes the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between the posterior and prior. In NLP, VAEs are extremely difficult to train due to the problem of KL collapsing to zero. One has to implement various heuristics such as KL weight annealing and word dropout in a carefully engineered manner to successfully train a VAE for text. In this paper, we propose to use the Wasserstein autoencoder (WAE) for probabilistic sentence generation, where the encoder could be either stochastic or deterministic. We show theoretically and empirically that, in the original WAE, the stochastically encoded Gaussian distribution tends to become a Dirac-delta function, and we propose a variant of WAE that encourages the stochasticity of the encoder. Experimental results show that the latent space learned by WAE exhibits properties of continuity and smoothness as in VAEs, while simultaneously achieving much higher BLEU scores for sentence reconstruction.
Understanding procedural language requires reasoning about both hierarchical and temporal relations between events. For example, {``}boiling pasta{''} is a sub-event of {``}making a pasta dish{''}, typically happens before {``}draining pasta,{''} and requires the use of omitted tools (e.g. a strainer, sink...). While people are able to choose when and how to use abstract versus concrete instructions, the NLP community lacks corpora and tasks for evaluating if our models can do the same. In this paper, we introduce KidsCook, a parallel script corpus, as well as a cloze task which matches video captions with missing procedural details. Experimental results show that state-of-the-art models struggle at this task, which requires inducing functional commonsense knowledge not explicitly stated in text.
A number of psycholinguistic studies have factorially manipulated words{'} contextual predictabilities and corpus frequencies and shown separable effects of each on measures of human sentence processing, a pattern which has been used to support distinct mechanisms underlying prediction on the one hand and lexical retrieval on the other. This paper examines the generalizability of this finding to more realistic conditions of sentence processing by studying effects of frequency and predictability in three large-scale naturalistic reading corpora. Results show significant effects of word frequency and predictability in isolation but no effect of frequency over and above predictability, and thus do not provide evidence of distinct mechanisms. The non-replication of separable effects in a naturalistic setting raises doubts about the existence of such a distinction in everyday sentence comprehension. Instead, these results are consistent with previous claims that apparent effects of frequency are underlyingly effects of predictability.
This paper presents three hybrid models that directly combine latent Dirichlet allocation and word embedding for distinguishing between speakers with and without Alzheimer{'}s disease from transcripts of picture descriptions. Two of our models get F-scores over the current state-of-the-art using automatic methods on the DementiaBank dataset.
While idiosyncrasies of the Chinese classifier system have been a richly studied topic among linguists (Adams and Conklin, 1973; Erbaugh, 1986; Lakoff, 1986), not much work has been done to quantify them with statistical methods. In this paper, we introduce an information-theoretic approach to measuring idiosyncrasy; we examine how much the uncertainty in Mandarin Chinese classifiers can be reduced by knowing semantic information about the nouns that the classifiers modify. Using the empirical distribution of classifiers from the parsed Chinese Gigaword corpus (Graff et al., 2005), we compute the mutual information (in bits) between the distribution over classifiers and distributions over other linguistic quantities. We investigate whether semantic classes of nouns and adjectives differ in how much they reduce uncertainty in classifier choice, and find that it is not fully idiosyncratic; while there are no obvious trends for the majority of semantic classes, shape nouns reduce uncertainty in classifier choice the most.
Fine-tuning neural networks is widely used to transfer valuable knowledge from high-resource to low-resource domains. In a standard fine-tuning scheme, source and target problems are trained using the same architecture. Although capable of adapting to new domains, pre-trained units struggle with learning uncommon target-specific patterns. In this paper, we propose to augment the target-network with normalised, weighted and randomly initialised units that beget a better adaptation while maintaining the valuable source knowledge. Our experiments on POS tagging of social media texts (Tweets domain) demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performances on 3 commonly used datasets.
In recent years neural language models (LMs) have set the state-of-the-art performance for several benchmarking datasets. While the reasons for their success and their computational demand are well-documented, a comparison between neural models and more recent developments in n-gram models is neglected. In this paper, we examine the recent progress in n-gram literature, running experiments on 50 languages covering all morphological language families. Experimental results illustrate that a simple extension of Modified Kneser-Ney outperforms an lstm language model on 42 languages while a word-level Bayesian n-gram LM (Shareghi et al., 2017) outperforms the character-aware neural model (Kim et al., 2016) on average across all languages, and its extension which explicitly injects linguistic knowledge (Gerz et al., 2018) on 8 languages. Further experiments on larger Europarl datasets for 3 languages indicate that neural architectures are able to outperform computationally much cheaper n-gram models: n-gram training is up to 15,000x quicker. Our experiments illustrate that standalone n-gram models lend themselves as natural choices for resource-lean or morphologically rich languages, while the recent progress has significantly improved their accuracy.
Lemmatization aims to reduce the sparse data problem by relating the inflected forms of a word to its dictionary form. Using context can help, both for unseen and ambiguous words. Yet most context-sensitive approaches require full lemma-annotated sentences for training, which may be scarce or unavailable in low-resource languages. In addition (as shown here), in a low-resource setting, a lemmatizer can learn more from n labeled examples of distinct words (types) than from n (contiguous) labeled tokens, since the latter contain far fewer distinct types. To combine the efficiency of type-based learning with the benefits of context, we propose a way to train a context-sensitive lemmatizer with little or no labeled corpus data, using inflection tables from the UniMorph project and raw text examples from Wikipedia that provide sentence contexts for the unambiguous UniMorph examples. Despite these being unambiguous examples, the model successfully generalizes from them, leading to improved results (both overall, and especially on unseen words) in comparison to a baseline that does not use context.
Recent work has improved our ability to detect linguistic knowledge in word representations. However, current methods for detecting syntactic knowledge do not test whether syntax trees are represented in their entirety. In this work, we propose a structural probe, which evaluates whether syntax trees are embedded in a linear transformation of a neural network{'}s word representation space. The probe identifies a linear transformation under which squared L2 distance encodes the distance between words in the parse tree, and one in which squared L2 norm encodes depth in the parse tree. Using our probe, we show that such transformations exist for both ELMo and BERT but not in baselines, providing evidence that entire syntax trees are embedded implicitly in deep models{'} vector geometry.
This paper seeks to model human language by the mathematical framework of quantum physics. With the well-designed mathematical formulations in quantum physics, this framework unifies different linguistic units in a single complex-valued vector space, e.g. words as particles in quantum states and sentences as mixed systems. A complex-valued network is built to implement this framework for semantic matching. With well-constrained complex-valued components, the network admits interpretations to explicit physical meanings. The proposed complex-valued network for matching (CNM) achieves comparable performances to strong CNN and RNN baselines on two benchmarking question answering (QA) datasets.
When answering a question, people often draw upon their rich world knowledge in addition to the particular context. Recent work has focused primarily on answering questions given some relevant document or context, and required very little general background. To investigate question answering with prior knowledge, we present CommonsenseQA: a challenging new dataset for commonsense question answering. To capture common sense beyond associations, we extract from ConceptNet (Speer et al., 2017) multiple target concepts that have the same semantic relation to a single source concept. Crowd-workers are asked to author multiple-choice questions that mention the source concept and discriminate in turn between each of the target concepts. This encourages workers to create questions with complex semantics that often require prior knowledge. We create 12,247 questions through this procedure and demonstrate the difficulty of our task with a large number of strong baselines. Our best baseline is based on BERT-large (Devlin et al., 2018) and obtains 56{\%} accuracy, well below human performance, which is 89{\%}.
Current work on multimodal machine translation (MMT) has suggested that the visual modality is either unnecessary or only marginally beneficial. We posit that this is a consequence of the very simple, short and repetitive sentences used in the only available dataset for the task (Multi30K), rendering the source text sufficient as context. In the general case, however, we believe that it is possible to combine visual and textual information in order to ground translations. In this paper we probe the contribution of the visual modality to state-of-the-art MMT models by conducting a systematic analysis where we partially deprive the models from source-side textual context. Our results show that under limited textual context, models are capable of leveraging the visual input to generate better translations. This contradicts the current belief that MMT models disregard the visual modality because of either the quality of the image features or the way they are integrated into the model.
We introduce a new language representation model called BERT, which stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers. Unlike recent language representation models (Peters et al., 2018a; Radford et al., 2018), BERT is designed to pre-train deep bidirectional representations from unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both left and right context in all layers. As a result, the pre-trained BERT model can be fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create state-of-the-art models for a wide range of tasks, such as question answering and language inference, without substantial task-specific architecture modifications. BERT is conceptually simple and empirically powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art results on eleven natural language processing tasks, including pushing the GLUE score to 80.5 (7.7 point absolute improvement), MultiNLI accuracy to 86.7{\%} (4.6{\%} absolute improvement), SQuAD v1.1 question answering Test F1 to 93.2 (1.5 point absolute improvement) and SQuAD v2.0 Test F1 to 83.1 (5.1 point absolute improvement).
There is a growing body of work that proposes methods for mitigating bias in machine learning systems. These methods typically rely on access to protected attributes such as race, gender, or age. However, this raises two significant challenges: (1) protected attributes may not be available or it may not be legal to use them, and (2) it is often desirable to simultaneously consider multiple protected attributes, as well as their intersections. In the context of mitigating bias in occupation classification, we propose a method for discouraging correlation between the predicted probability of an individual{'}s true occupation and a word embedding of their name. This method leverages the societal biases that are encoded in word embeddings, eliminating the need for access to protected attributes. Crucially, it only requires access to individuals{'} names at training time and not at deployment time. We evaluate two variations of our proposed method using a large-scale dataset of online biographies. We find that both variations simultaneously reduce race and gender biases, with almost no reduction in the classifier{'}s overall true positive rate.
Extensive research has recently shown that recurrent neural language models are able to process a wide range of grammatical phenomena. How these models are able to perform these remarkable feats so well, however, is still an open question. To gain more insight into what information LSTMs base their decisions on, we propose a generalisation of Contextual Decomposition (GCD). In particular, this setup enables us to accurately distil which part of a prediction stems from semantic heuristics, which part truly emanates from syntactic cues and which part arise from the model biases themselves instead. We investigate this technique on tasks pertaining to syntactic agreement and co-reference resolution and discover that the model strongly relies on a default reasoning effect to perform these tasks.
Supertagging is a sequence prediction task where each word is assigned a piece of complex syntactic structure called a supertag. We provide a novel approach to multi-task learning for Tree Adjoining Grammar (TAG) supertagging by deconstructing these complex supertags in order to define a set of related but auxiliary sequence prediction tasks. Our multi-task prediction framework is trained over the exactly same training data used to train the original supertagger where each auxiliary task provides an alternative view on the original prediction task. Our experimental results show that our multi-task approach significantly improves TAG supertagging with a new state-of-the-art accuracy score of 91.39{\%} on the Penn Treebank supertagging dataset.
We present a method for applying a neural network trained on one (resource-rich) language for a given task to other (resource-poor) languages. We accomplish this by inducing a mapping from pre-trained cross-lingual word embeddings to the embedding layer of the neural network trained on the resource-rich language. To perform element-wise cross-task embedding projection, we invent locally linear mapping which assumes and preserves the local topology across the semantic spaces before and after the projection. Experimental results on topic classification task and sentiment analysis task showed that the fully task-specific multilingual model obtained using our method outperformed the existing multilingual models with embedding layers fixed to pre-trained cross-lingual word embeddings.
In this paper, we present a thorough investigation on methods that align pre-trained contextualized embeddings into shared cross-lingual context-aware embedding space, providing strong reference benchmarks for future context-aware crosslingual models. We propose a novel and challenging task, Bilingual Token-level Sense Retrieval (BTSR). It specifically evaluates the accurate alignment of words with the same meaning in cross-lingual non-parallel contexts, currently not evaluated by existing tasks such as Bilingual Contextual Word Similarity and Sentence Retrieval. We show how the proposed BTSR task highlights the merits of different alignment methods. In particular, we find that using context average type-level alignment is effective in transferring monolingual contextualized embeddings cross-lingually especially in non-parallel contexts, and at the same time improves the monolingual space. Furthermore, aligning independently trained models yields better performance than aligning multilingual embeddings with shared vocabulary.
Producing diverse paraphrases of a sentence is a challenging task. Natural paraphrase corpora are scarce and limited, while existing large-scale resources are automatically generated via back-translation and rely on beam search, which tends to lack diversity. We describe ParaBank 2, a new resource that contains multiple diverse sentential paraphrases, produced from a bilingual corpus using negative constraints, inference sampling, and clustering.We show that ParaBank 2 significantly surpasses prior work in both lexical and syntactic diversity while being meaning-preserving, as measured by human judgments and standardized metrics. Further, we illustrate how such paraphrastic resources may be used to refine contextualized encoders, leading to improvements in downstream tasks.
Systems that can associate images with their spoken audio captions are an important step towards visually grounded language learning. We describe a scalable method to automatically generate diverse audio for image captioning datasets. This supports pretraining deep networks for encoding both audio and images, which we do via a dual encoder that learns to align latent representations from both modalities. We show that a masked margin softmax loss for such models is superior to the standard triplet loss. We fine-tune these models on the Flickr8k Audio Captions Corpus and obtain state-of-the-art results{---}improving recall in the top 10 from 29.6{\%} to 49.5{\%}. We also obtain human ratings on retrieval outputs to better assess the impact of incidentally matching image-caption pairs that were not associated in the data, finding that automatic evaluation substantially underestimates the quality of the retrieved results.
Neural language models (LMs) perform well on tasks that require sensitivity to syntactic structure. Drawing on the syntactic priming paradigm from psycholinguistics, we propose a novel technique to analyze the representations that enable such success. By establishing a gradient similarity metric between structures, this technique allows us to reconstruct the organization of the LMs{'} syntactic representational space. We use this technique to demonstrate that LSTM LMs{'} representations of different types of sentences with relative clauses are organized hierarchically in a linguistically interpretable manner, suggesting that the LMs track abstract properties of the sentence.
Computational research on error detection in second language speakers has mainly addressed clear grammatical anomalies typical to learners at the beginner-to-intermediate level. We focus instead on acquisition of subtle semantic nuances of English indefinite pronouns by non-native speakers at varying levels of proficiency. We first lay out theoretical, linguistically motivated hypotheses, and supporting empirical evidence, on the nature of the challenges posed by indefinite pronouns to English learners. We then suggest and evaluate an automatic approach for detection of atypical usage patterns, demonstrating that deep learning architectures are promising for this task involving nuanced semantic anomalies.
Image captioning models are usually evaluated on their ability to describe a held-out set of images, not on their ability to generalize to unseen concepts. We study the problem of compositional generalization, which measures how well a model composes unseen combinations of concepts when describing images. State-of-the-art image captioning models show poor generalization performance on this task. We propose a multi-task model to address the poor performance, that combines caption generation and image{--}sentence ranking, and uses a decoding mechanism that re-ranks the captions according their similarity to the image. This model is substantially better at generalizing to unseen combinations of concepts compared to state-of-the-art captioning models.
We introduce a new embedding model to represent movie characters and their interactions in a dialogue by encoding in the same representation the language used by these characters as well as information about the other participants in the dialogue. We evaluate the performance of these new character embeddings on two tasks: (1) character relatedness, using a dataset we introduce consisting of a dense character interaction matrix for 4,378 unique character pairs over 22 hours of dialogue from eighteen movies; and (2) character relation classification, for fine- and coarse-grained relations, as well as sentiment relations. Our experiments show that our model significantly outperforms the traditional Word2Vec continuous bag-of-words and skip-gram models, demonstrating the effectiveness of the character embeddings we introduce. We further show how these embeddings can be used in conjunction with a visual question answering system to improve over previous results.
Research on the bilingual lexicon has uncovered fascinating interactions between the lexicons of the native language and of the second language in bilingual speakers. In particular, it has been found that the lexicon of the underlying native language affects the organisation of the second language. In the spirit of interpreting current distributed representations, this paper investigates two models of cross-lingual word embeddings, comparing them to the shared-translation effect and the cross-lingual coactivation effects of false and true friends (cognates) found in humans. We find that the similarity structure of the cross-lingual word embeddings space yields the same effects as the human bilingual lexicon.
We propose algorithms to train production-quality n-gram language models using federated learning. Federated learning is a distributed computation platform that can be used to train global models for portable devices such as smart phones. Federated learning is especially relevant for applications handling privacy-sensitive data, such as virtual keyboards, because training is performed without the users{'} data ever leaving their devices. While the principles of federated learning are fairly generic, its methodology assumes that the underlying models are neural networks. However, virtual keyboards are typically powered by n-gram language models for latency reasons. We propose to train a recurrent neural network language model using the decentralized FederatedAveraging algorithm and to approximate this federated model server-side with an n-gram model that can be deployed to devices for fast inference. Our technical contributions include ways of handling large vocabularies, algorithms to correct capitalization errors in user data, and efficient finite state transducer algorithms to convert word language models to word-piece language models and vice versa. The n-gram language models trained with federated learning are compared to n-grams trained with traditional server-based algorithms using A/B tests on tens of millions of users of a virtual keyboard. Results are presented for two languages, American English and Brazilian Portuguese. This work demonstrates that high-quality n-gram language models can be trained directly on client mobile devices without sensitive training data ever leaving the devices.
Conceptual spaces are geometric representations of meaning that were proposed by G ̈ardenfors (2000). They share many similarities with the vector space embeddings that are commonly used in natural language processing. However, rather than representing entities in a single vector space, conceptual spaces are usually decomposed into several facets, each of which is then modelled as a relatively low dimensional vector space. Unfortunately, the problem of learning such conceptual spaces has thus far only received limited attention. To address this gap, we analyze how, and to what extent, a given vector space embedding can be decomposed into meaningful facets in an unsupervised fashion. While this problem is highly challenging, we show that useful facets can be discovered by relying on word embeddings to group semantically related features.
Bilingual word embeddings have been widely used to capture the correspondence of lexical semantics in different human languages. However, the cross-lingual correspondence between sentences and words is less studied, despite that this correspondence can significantly benefit many applications such as crosslingual semantic search and textual inference. To bridge this gap, we propose a neural embedding model that leverages bilingual dictionaries. The proposed model is trained to map the lexical definitions to the cross-lingual target words, for which we explore with different sentence encoding techniques. To enhance the learning process on limited resources, our model adopts several critical learning strategies, including multi-task learning on different bridges of languages, and joint learning of the dictionary model with a bilingual word embedding model. We conduct experiments on two new tasks. In the cross-lingual reverse dictionary retrieval task, we demonstrate that our model is capable of comprehending bilingual concepts based on descriptions, and the proposed learning strategies are effective. In the bilingual paraphrase identification task, we show that our model effectively associates sentences in different languages via a shared embedding space, and outperforms existing approaches in identifying bilingual paraphrases.
We propose a method called reverse mapping bytepair encoding, which maps named-entity information and other word-level linguistic features back to subwords during the encoding procedure of bytepair encoding (BPE). We employ this method to the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (OpenAI GPT) by adding a weighted linear layer after the embedding layer. We also propose a new model architecture named as the multi-channel separate transformer to employ a training process without parameter-sharing. Evaluation on Stories Cloze, RTE, SciTail and SST-2 datasets demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach.
Universal Conceptual Cognitive Annotation (UCCA; Abend and Rappoport, 2013) is a typologically-informed, broad-coverage semantic annotation scheme that describes coarse-grained predicate-argument structure but currently lacks semantic roles. We argue that lexicon-free annotation of the semantic roles marked by prepositions, as formulated by Schneider et al. (2018), is complementary and suitable for integration within UCCA. We show empirically for English that the schemes, though annotated independently, are compatible and can be combined in a single semantic graph. A comparison of several approaches to parsing the integrated representation lays the groundwork for future research on this task.
Though languages can evolve slowly, they can also react strongly to dramatic world events. By studying the connection between words and events, it is possible to identify which events change our vocabulary and in what way. In this work, we tackle the task of creating timelines - records of historical {``}turning points{''}, represented by either words or events, to understand the dynamics of a target word. Our approach identifies these points by leveraging both static and time-varying word embeddings to measure the influence of words and events. In addition to quantifying changes, we show how our technique can help isolate semantic changes. Our qualitative and quantitative evaluations show that we are able to capture this semantic change and event influence.
Phenomenon-specific {``}adversarial{''} datasets have been recently designed to perform targeted stress-tests for particular inference types. Recent work (Liu et al., 2019a) proposed that such datasets can be utilized for training NLI and other types of models, often allowing to learn the phenomenon in focus and improve on the challenge dataset, indicating a {``}blind spot{''} in the original training data. Yet, although a model can improve in such a training process, it might still be vulnerable to other challenge datasets targeting the same phenomenon but drawn from a different distribution, such as having a different syntactic complexity level. In this work, we extend this method to drive conclusions about a model{'}s ability to learn and generalize a target phenomenon rather than to {``}learn{''} a dataset, by controlling additional aspects in the adversarial datasets. We demonstrate our approach on two inference phenomena {--} dative alternation and numerical reasoning, elaborating, and in some cases contradicting, the results of Liu et al.. Our methodology enables building better challenge datasets for creating more robust models, and may yield better model understanding and subsequent overarching improvements.
We present a fully unsupervised crosslingual semantic textual similarity (STS) metric, based on contextual embeddings extracted from BERT {--} Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (Devlin et al., 2019). The goal of crosslingual STS is to measure to what degree two segments of text in different languages express the same meaning. Not only is it a key task in crosslingual natural language understanding (XLU), it is also particularly useful for identifying parallel resources for training and evaluating downstream multilingual natural language processing (NLP) applications, such as machine translation. Most previous crosslingual STS methods relied heavily on existing parallel resources, thus leading to a circular dependency problem. With the advent of massively multilingual context representation models such as BERT, which are trained on the concatenation of non-parallel data from each language, we show that the deadlock around parallel resources can be broken. We perform intrinsic evaluations on crosslingual STS data sets and extrinsic evaluations on parallel corpus filtering and human translation equivalence assessment tasks. Our results show that the unsupervised crosslingual STS metric using BERT without fine-tuning achieves performance on par with supervised or weakly supervised approaches.
Recent work has validated the importance of subword information for word representation learning. Since subwords increase parameter sharing ability in neural models, their value should be even more pronounced in low-data regimes. In this work, we therefore provide a comprehensive analysis focused on the usefulness of subwords for word representation learning in truly low-resource scenarios and for three representative morphological tasks: fine-grained entity typing, morphological tagging, and named entity recognition. We conduct a systematic study that spans several dimensions of comparison: 1) type of data scarcity which can stem from the lack of task-specific training data, or even from the lack of unannotated data required to train word embeddings, or both; 2) language type by working with a sample of 16 typologically diverse languages including some truly low-resource ones (e.g. Rusyn, Buryat, and Zulu); 3) the choice of the subword-informed word representation method. Our main results show that subword-informed models are universally useful across all language types, with large gains over subword-agnostic embeddings. They also suggest that the effective use of subwords largely depends on the language (type) and the task at hand, as well as on the amount of available data for training the embeddings and task-based models, where having sufficient in-task data is a more critical requirement.
Recurrent neural network grammars generate sentences using phrase-structure syntax and perform very well on both parsing and language modeling. To explore whether generative dependency models are similarly effective, we propose two new generative models of dependency syntax. Both models use recurrent neural nets to avoid making explicit independence assumptions, but they differ in the order used to construct the trees: one builds the tree bottom-up and the other top-down, which profoundly changes the estimation problem faced by the learner. We evaluate the two models on three typologically different languages: English, Arabic, and Japanese. While both generative models improve parsing performance over a discriminative baseline, they are significantly less effective than non-syntactic LSTM language models. Surprisingly, little difference between the construction orders is observed for either parsing or language modeling.
We present a new method for transition-based parsing where a solution is a pair made of a dependency tree and a derivation graph describing the construction of the former. From this representation we are able to derive an efficient parsing algorithm and design a neural network that learns vertex representations and arc scores. Experimentally, although we only train via local classifiers, our approach improves over previous arc-hybrid systems and reach state-of-the-art parsing accuracy.
Debate motions (proposals) tabled in the UK Parliament contain information about the stated policy preferences of the Members of Parliament who propose them, and are key to the analysis of all subsequent speeches given in response to them. We attempt to automatically label debate motions with codes from a pre-existing coding scheme developed by political scientists for the annotation and analysis of political parties{'} manifestos. We develop annotation guidelines for the task of applying these codes to debate motions at two levels of granularity and produce a dataset of manually labelled examples. We evaluate the annotation process and the reliability and utility of the labelling scheme, finding that inter-annotator agreement is comparable with that of other studies conducted on manifesto data. Moreover, we test a variety of ways of automatically labelling motions with the codes, ranging from similarity matching to neural classification methods, and evaluate them against the gold standard labels. From these experiments, we note that established supervised baselines are not always able to improve over simple lexical heuristics. At the same time, we detect a clear and evident benefit when employing BERT, a state-of-the-art deep language representation model, even in classification scenarios with over 30 different labels and limited amounts of training data.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) optimized by Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) lacks the guarantee of translation adequacy. To alleviate this problem, we propose an NMT approach that heightens the adequacy in machine translation by transferring the semantic knowledge learned from bilingual sentence alignment. Specifically, we first design a discriminator that learns to estimate sentence aligning score over translation candidates, and then the learned semantic knowledge is transfered to the NMT model under an adversarial learning framework. We also propose a gated self-attention based encoder for sentence embedding. Furthermore, an N-pair training loss is introduced in our framework to aid the discriminator in better capturing lexical evidence in translation candidates. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms baseline NMT models on Chinese-to-English and English-to-German translation tasks. Further analysis also indicates the detailed semantic knowledge transfered from the discriminator to the NMT model.
Training code-switched language models is difficult due to lack of data and complexity in the grammatical structure. Linguistic constraint theories have been used for decades to generate artificial code-switching sentences to cope with this issue. However, this require external word alignments or constituency parsers that create erroneous results on distant languages. We propose a sequence-to-sequence model using a copy mechanism to generate code-switching data by leveraging parallel monolingual translations from a limited source of code-switching data. The model learns how to combine words from parallel sentences and identifies when to switch one language to the other. Moreover, it captures code-switching constraints by attending and aligning the words in inputs, without requiring any external knowledge. Based on experimental results, the language model trained with the generated sentences achieves state-of-the-art performance and improves end-to-end automatic speech recognition.
In this paper, we alleviate the local optimality of back-translation by learning a policy (takes the form of an encoder-decoder and is defined by its parameters) with future rewarding under the reinforcement learning framework, which aims to optimize the global word predictions for unsupervised neural machine translation. To this end, we design a novel reward function to characterize high-quality translations from two aspects: n-gram matching and semantic adequacy. The n-gram matching is defined as an alternative for the discrete BLEU metric, and the semantic adequacy is used to measure the adequacy of conveying the meaning of the source sentence to the target. During training, our model strives for earning higher rewards by learning to produce grammatically more accurate and semantically more adequate translations. Besides, a variational inference network (VIN) is proposed to constrain the corresponding sentences in two languages have the same or similar latent semantic code. On the widely used WMT{'}14 English-French, WMT{'}16 English-German and NIST Chinese-to-English benchmarks, our models respectively obtain 27.59/27.15, 19.65/23.42 and 22.40 BLEU points without using any labeled data, demonstrating consistent improvements over previous unsupervised NMT models.
We show that the state-of-the-art Transformer MT model is not biased towards monotonic reordering (unlike previous recurrent neural network models), but that nevertheless, long-distance dependencies remain a challenge for the model. Since most dependencies are short-distance, common evaluation metrics will be little influenced by how well systems perform on them. We therefore propose an automatic approach for extracting challenge sets rich with long-distance dependencies, and argue that evaluation using this methodology provides a complementary perspective on system performance. To support our claim, we compile challenge sets for English-German and German-English, which are much larger than any previously released challenge set for MT. The extracted sets are large enough to allow reliable automatic evaluation, which makes the proposed approach a scalable and practical solution for evaluating MT performance on the long-tail of syntactic phenomena.
Despite advances in dependency parsing, languages with small treebanks still present challenges. We assess recent approaches to multilingual contextual word representations (CWRs), and compare them for crosslingual transfer from a language with a large treebank to a language with a small or nonexistent treebank, by sharing parameters between languages in the parser itself. We experiment with a diverse selection of languages in both simulated and truly low-resource scenarios, and show that multilingual CWRs greatly facilitate low-resource dependency parsing even without crosslingual supervision such as dictionaries or parallel text. Furthermore, we examine the non-contextual part of the learned language models (which we call a {``}decontextual probe{''}) to demonstrate that polyglot language models better encode crosslingual lexical correspondence compared to aligned monolingual language models. This analysis provides further evidence that polyglot training is an effective approach to crosslingual transfer.
Recently, pre-trained language models have achieved remarkable success in a broad range of natural language processing tasks. However, in multilingual setting, it is extremely resource-consuming to pre-train a deep language model over large-scale corpora for each language. Instead of exhaustively pre-training monolingual language models independently, an alternative solution is to pre-train a powerful multilingual deep language model over large-scale corpora in hundreds of languages. However, the vocabulary size for each language in such a model is relatively small, especially for low-resource languages. This limitation inevitably hinders the performance of these multilingual models on tasks such as sequence labeling, wherein in-depth token-level or sentence-level understanding is essential. In this paper, inspired by previous methods designed for monolingual settings, we investigate two approaches (i.e., joint mapping and mixture mapping) based on a pre-trained multilingual model BERT for addressing the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) problem on a variety of tasks, including part-of-speech tagging, named entity recognition, machine translation quality estimation, and machine reading comprehension. Experimental results show that using mixture mapping is more promising. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that attempts to address and discuss the OOV issue in multilingual settings.
Long sentences have been one of the major challenges in neural machine translation (NMT). Although some approaches such as the attention mechanism have partially remedied the problem, we found that the current standard NMT model, Transformer, has difficulty in translating long sentences compared to the former standard, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)-based model. One of the key differences of these NMT models is how the model handles position information which is essential to process sequential data. In this study, we focus on the position information type of NMT models, and hypothesize that relative position is better than absolute position. To examine the hypothesis, we propose RNN-Transformer which replaces positional encoding layer of Transformer by RNN, and then compare RNN-based model and four variants of Transformer. Experiments on ASPEC English-to-Japanese and WMT2014 English-to-German translation tasks demonstrate that relative position helps translating sentences longer than those in the training data. Further experiments on length-controlled training data reveal that absolute position actually causes overfitting to the sentence length.
In this paper, we study how word-like units are represented and activated in a recurrent neural model of visually grounded speech. The model used in our experiments is trained to project an image and its spoken description in a common representation space. We show that a recurrent model trained on spoken sentences implicitly segments its input into word-like units and reliably maps them to their correct visual referents. We introduce a methodology originating from linguistics to analyse the representation learned by neural networks {--} the gating paradigm {--} and show that the correct representation of a word is only activated if the network has access to first phoneme of the target word, suggesting that the network does not rely on a global acoustic pattern. Furthermore, we find out that not all speech frames (MFCC vectors in our case) play an equal role in the final encoded representation of a given word, but that some frames have a crucial effect on it. Finally we suggest that word representation could be activated through a process of lexical competition.
Quantitative reasoning is a higher-order reasoning skill that any intelligent natural language understanding system can reasonably be expected to handle. We present EQUATE (Evaluating Quantitative Understanding Aptitude in Textual Entailment), a new framework for quantitative reasoning in textual entailment. We benchmark the performance of 9 published NLI models on EQUATE, and find that on average, state-of-the-art methods do not achieve an absolute improvement over a majority-class baseline, suggesting that they do not implicitly learn to reason with quantities. We establish a new baseline Q-REAS that manipulates quantities symbolically. In comparison to the best performing NLI model, it achieves success on numerical reasoning tests (+24.2 {\%}), but has limited verbal reasoning capabilities (-8.1 {\%}). We hope our evaluation framework will support the development of models of quantitative reasoning in language understanding.
In the field of metaphor detection, deep learning systems are the ubiquitous and achieve strong performance on many tasks. However, due to the complicated procedures for manually identifying metaphors, the datasets available are relatively small and fraught with complications. We show that using syntactic features and lexical resources can automatically provide additional high-quality training data for metaphoric language, and this data can cover gaps and inconsistencies in metaphor annotation, improving state-of-the-art word-level metaphor identification. This novel application of automatically improving training data improves classification across numerous tasks, and reconfirms the necessity of high-quality data for deep learning frameworks.
Cross-lingual transfer learning has become an important weapon to battle the unavailability of annotated resources for low-resource languages. One of the fundamental techniques to transfer across languages is learning \textit{language-agnostic} representations, in the form of word embeddings or contextual encodings. In this work, we propose to leverage unannotated sentences from auxiliary languages to help learning language-agnostic representations. Specifically, we explore adversarial training for learning contextual encoders that produce invariant representations across languages to facilitate cross-lingual transfer. We conduct experiments on cross-lingual dependency parsing where we train a dependency parser on a source language and transfer it to a wide range of target languages. Experiments on 28 target languages demonstrate that adversarial training significantly improves the overall transfer performances under several different settings. We conduct a careful analysis to evaluate the language-agnostic representations resulted from adversarial training.
Recognising dialogue acts (DA) is important for many natural language processing tasks such as dialogue generation and intention recognition. In this paper, we propose a dual-attention hierarchical recurrent neural network for DA classification. Our model is partially inspired by the observation that conversational utterances are normally associated with both a DA and a topic, where the former captures the social act and the latter describes the subject matter. However, such a dependency between DAs and topics has not been utilised by most existing systems for DA classification. With a novel dual task-specific attention mechanism, our model is able, for utterances, to capture information about both DAs and topics, as well as information about the interactions between them. Experimental results show that by modelling topic as an auxiliary task, our model can significantly improve DA classification, yielding better or comparable performance to the state-of-the-art method on three public datasets.
Reflective listening{--}demonstrating that you have heard your conversational partner{--}is key to effective communication. Expert human communicators often mimic and rephrase their conversational partner, e.g., when responding to sentimental stories or to questions they don{'}t know the answer to. We introduce a new task and an associated dataset wherein dialogue agents similarly mimic and rephrase a user{'}s request to communicate sympathy (I{'}m sorry to hear that) or lack of knowledge (I do not know that). We study what makes a rephrasal response good against a set of qualitative metrics. We then evaluate three models for generating responses: a syntax-aware rule-based system, a seq2seq LSTM neural models with attention (S2SA), and the same neural model augmented with a copy mechanism (S2SA+C). In a human evaluation, we find that S2SA+C and the rule-based system are comparable and approach human-generated response quality. In addition, experiences with a live deployment of S2SA+C in a customer support setting suggest that this generation task is a practical contribution to real world conversational agents.
Pyramid evaluation was developed to assess the content of paragraph length summaries of source texts. A pyramid lists the distinct units of content found in several reference summaries, weights content units by how many reference summaries they occur in, and produces three scores based on the weighted content of new summaries. We present an automated method that is more efficient, more transparent, and more complete than previous automated pyramid methods. It is tested on a new dataset of student summaries, and historical NIST data from extractive summarizers.
Instructional videos get high-traffic on video sharing platforms, and prior work suggests that providing time-stamped, subtask annotations (e.g., {``}heat the oil in the pan{''}) improves user experiences. However, current automatic annotation methods based on visual features alone perform only slightly better than constant prediction. Taking cues from prior work, we show that we can improve performance significantly by considering automatic speech recognition (ASR) tokens as input. Furthermore, jointly modeling ASR tokens and visual features results in higher performance compared to training individually on either modality. We find that unstated background information is better explained by visual features, whereas fine-grained distinctions (e.g., {``}add oil{''} vs. {``}add olive oil{''}) are disambiguated more easily via ASR tokens.
Grounding referring expressions to objects in an environment has traditionally been considered a one-off, ahistorical task. However, in realistic applications of grounding, multiple users will repeatedly refer to the same set of objects. As a result, past referring expressions for objects can provide strong signals for grounding subsequent referring expressions. We therefore reframe the grounding problem from the perspective of coreference detection and propose a neural network that detects when two expressions are referring to the same object. The network combines information from vision and past referring expressions to resolve which object is being referred to. Our experiments show that detecting referring expression coreference is an effective way to ground objects described by subtle visual properties, which standard visual grounding models have difficulty capturing. We also show the ability to detect object coreference allows the grounding model to perform well even when it encounters object categories not seen in the training data.
This paper addresses the problem of comprehending procedural commonsense knowledge. This is a challenging task as it requires identifying key entities, keeping track of their state changes, and understanding temporal and causal relations. Contrary to most of the previous work, in this study, we do not rely on strong inductive bias and explore the question of how multimodality can be exploited to provide a complementary semantic signal. Towards this end, we introduce a new entity-aware neural comprehension model augmented with external relational memory units. Our model learns to dynamically update entity states in relation to each other while reading the text instructions. Our experimental analysis on the visual reasoning tasks in the recently proposed RecipeQA dataset reveals that our approach improves the accuracy of the previously reported models by a large margin. Moreover, we find that our model learns effective dynamic representations of entities even though we do not use any supervision at the level of entity states.
One of the goals of natural language understanding is to develop models that map sentences into meaning representations. However, training such models requires expensive annotation of complex structures, which hinders their adoption. Learning to actively-learn(LTAL) is a recent paradigm for reducing the amount of labeled data by learning a policy that selects which samples should be labeled. In this work, we examine LTAL for learning semantic representations, such as QA-SRL. We show that even an oracle policy that is allowed to pick examples that maximize performance on the test set (and constitutes an upper bound on the potential of LTAL), does not substantially improve performance compared to a random policy. We investigate factors that could explain this finding and show that a distinguishing characteristic of successful applications of LTAL is the interaction between optimization and the oracle policy selection process. In successful applications of LTAL, the examples selected by the oracle policy do not substantially depend on the optimization procedure, while in our setup the stochastic nature of optimization strongly affects the examples selected by the oracle. We conclude that the current applicability of LTAL for improving data efficiency in learning semantic meaning representations is limited.
Many natural languages assign grammatical gender also to inanimate nouns in the language. In such languages, words that relate to the gender-marked nouns are inflected to agree with the noun{'}s gender. We show that this affects the word representations of inanimate nouns, resulting in nouns with the same gender being closer to each other than nouns with different gender. While {``}embedding debiasing{''} methods fail to remove the effect, we demonstrate that a careful application of methods that neutralize grammatical gender signals from the words{'} context when training word embeddings is effective in removing it. Fixing the grammatical gender bias yields a positive effect on the quality of the resulting word embeddings, both in monolingual and cross-lingual settings. We note that successfully removing gender signals, while achievable, is not trivial to do and that a language-specific morphological analyzer, together with careful usage of it, are essential for achieving good results.
Active learning (AL) is a technique for reducing manual annotation effort during the annotation of training data for machine learning classifiers. For NLP tasks, pool-based and stream-based sampling techniques have been used to select new instances for AL while gen erating new, artificial instances via Membership Query Synthesis was, up to know, considered to be infeasible for NLP problems. We present the first successfull attempt to use Membership Query Synthesis for generating AL queries, using Variational Autoencoders for query generation. We evaluate our approach in a text classification task and demonstrate that query synthesis shows competitive performance to pool-based AL strategies while substantially reducing annotation time
Inference in structured prediction involves finding the best output structure for an input, subject to certain constraints. Many current approaches use sequential inference, which constructs the output in a left-to-right manner. However, there is no general framework to specify constraints in these approaches. We present a principled approach for incorporating constraints into sequential inference algorithms. Our approach expresses constraints using an automaton, which is traversed in lock-step during inference, guiding the search to valid outputs. We show that automata can express commonly used constraints and are easily incorporated into sequential inference. When it is more natural to represent constraints as a set of automata, our algorithm uses an active set method for demonstrably fast and efficient inference. We experimentally show the benefits of our algorithm on constituency parsing and semantic role labeling. For parsing, unlike unconstrained approaches, our algorithm always generates valid output, incurring only a small drop in performance. For semantic role labeling, imposing constraints using our algorithm corrects common errors, improving F1 by 1.5 points. These benefits increase in low-resource settings. Our active set method achieves a 5.2x relative speed-up over a naive approach.
Automated fact-checking based on machine learning is a promising approach to identify false information distributed on the web. In order to achieve satisfactory performance, machine learning methods require a large corpus with reliable annotations for the different tasks in the fact-checking process. Having analyzed existing fact-checking corpora, we found that none of them meets these criteria in full. They are either too small in size, do not provide detailed annotations, or are limited to a single domain. Motivated by this gap, we present a new substantially sized mixed-domain corpus with annotations of good quality for the core fact-checking tasks: document retrieval, evidence extraction, stance detection, and claim validation. To aid future corpus construction, we describe our methodology for corpus creation and annotation, and demonstrate that it results in substantial inter-annotator agreement. As baselines for future research, we perform experiments on our corpus with a number of model architectures that reach high performance in similar problem settings. Finally, to support the development of future models, we provide a detailed error analysis for each of the tasks. Our results show that the realistic, multi-domain setting defined by our data poses new challenges for the existing models, providing opportunities for considerable improvement by future systems.
Different news articles about the same topic often offer a variety of perspectives: an article written about gun violence might emphasize gun control, while another might promote 2nd Amendment rights, and yet a third might focus on mental health issues. In communication research, these different perspectives are known as {``}frames{''}, which, when used in news media will influence the opinion of their readers in multiple ways. In this paper, we present a method for effectively detecting frames in news headlines. Our training and performance evaluation is based on a new dataset of news headlines related to the issue of gun violence in the United States. This Gun Violence Frame Corpus (GVFC) was curated and annotated by journalism and communication experts. Our proposed approach sets a new state-of-the-art performance for multiclass news frame detection, significantly outperforming a recent baseline by 35.9{\%} absolute difference in accuracy. We apply our frame detection approach in a large scale study of 88k news headlines about the coverage of gun violence in the U.S. between 2016 and 2018.
Named entity recognition (NER) identifies typed entity mentions in raw text. While the task is well-established, there is no universally used tagset: often, datasets are annotated for use in downstream applications and accordingly only cover a small set of entity types relevant to a particular task. For instance, in the biomedical domain, one corpus might annotate genes, another chemicals, and another diseases{---}despite the texts in each corpus containing references to all three types of entities. In this paper, we propose a deep structured model to integrate these {``}partially annotated{''} datasets to jointly identify all entity types appearing in the training corpora. By leveraging multiple datasets, the model can learn robust input representations; by building a joint structured model, it avoids potential conflicts caused by combining several models{'} predictions at test time. Experiments show that the proposed model significantly outperforms strong multi-task learning baselines when training on multiple, partially annotated datasets and testing on datasets that contain tags from more than one of the training corpora.
We show that it is feasible to perform entity linking by training a dual encoder (two-tower) model that encodes mentions and entities in the same dense vector space, where candidate entities are retrieved by approximate nearest neighbor search. Unlike prior work, this setup does not rely on an alias table followed by a re-ranker, and is thus the first fully learned entity retrieval model. We show that our dual encoder, trained using only anchor-text links in Wikipedia, outperforms discrete alias table and BM25 baselines, and is competitive with the best comparable results on the standard TACKBP-2010 dataset. In addition, it can retrieve candidates extremely fast, and generalizes well to a new dataset derived from Wikinews. On the modeling side, we demonstrate the dramatic value of an unsupervised negative mining algorithm for this task.
An interesting method of evaluating word representations is by how much they reflect the semantic representations in the human brain. However, most, if not all, previous works only focus on small datasets and a single modality. In this paper, we present the first multi-modal framework for evaluating English word representations based on cognitive lexical semantics. Six types of word embeddings are evaluated by fitting them to 15 datasets of eye-tracking, EEG and fMRI signals recorded during language processing. To achieve a global score over all evaluation hypotheses, we apply statistical significance testing accounting for the multiple comparisons problem. This framework is easily extensible and available to include other intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation methods. We find strong correlations in the results between cognitive datasets, across recording modalities and to their performance on extrinsic NLP tasks.
Story understanding requires developing expectations of what events come next in text. Prior knowledge {--} both statistical and declarative {--} is essential in guiding such expectations. While existing semantic language models (SemLM) capture event co-occurrence information by modeling event sequences as semantic frames, entities, and other semantic units, this paper aims at augmenting them with causal knowledge (i.e., one event is likely to lead to another). Such knowledge is modeled at the frame and entity level, and can be obtained either statistically from text or stated declaratively. The proposed method, KnowSemLM, infuses this knowledge into a semantic LM by joint training and inference, and is shown to be effective on both the event cloze test and story/referent prediction tasks.
This study proposes a Neural Attentive Bag-of-Entities model, which is a neural network model that performs text classification using entities in a knowledge base. Entities provide unambiguous and relevant semantic signals that are beneficial for text classification. We combine simple high-recall entity detection based on a dictionary, to detect entities in a document, with a novel neural attention mechanism that enables the model to focus on a small number of unambiguous and relevant entities. We tested the effectiveness of our model using two standard text classification datasets (i.e., the 20 Newsgroups and R8 datasets) and a popular factoid question answering dataset based on a trivia quiz game. As a result, our model achieved state-of-the-art results on all datasets. The source code of the proposed model is available online at https://github.com/wikipedia2vec/wikipedia2vec.
The official voting records of United States congresspeople are preserved as roll call votes. Prediction of voting behavior of politicians for whom no voting record exists, such as individuals running for office, is important for forecasting key political decisions. Prior work has relied on past votes cast to predict future votes, and thus fails to predict voting patterns for politicians without voting records. We address this by augmenting a prior state of the art model with multiple sources of external knowledge so as to enable prediction on unseen politicians. The sources of knowledge we use are news text and Freebase, a manually curated knowledge base. We propose augmentations based on unigram features for news text, and a knowledge base embedding method followed by a neural network composition for relations from Freebase. Empirical evaluation of these approaches indicate that the proposed models outperform the prior system for politicians with complete historical voting records by 1.0{\%} point of accuracy (8.7{\%} error reduction) and for politicians without voting records by 33.4{\%} points of accuracy (66.7{\%} error reduction). We also show that the knowledge base augmented approach outperforms the news text augmented approach by 4.2{\%} points of accuracy.
We propose BeamSeg, a joint model for segmentation and topic identification of documents from the same domain. The model assumes that lexical cohesion can be observed across documents, meaning that segments describing the same topic use a similar lexical distribution over the vocabulary. The model implements lexical cohesion in an unsupervised Bayesian setting by drawing from the same language model segments with the same topic. Contrary to previous approaches, we assume that language models are not independent, since the vocabulary changes in consecutive segments are expected to be smooth and not abrupt. We achieve this by using a dynamic Dirichlet prior that takes into account data contributions from other topics. BeamSeg also models segment length properties of documents based on modality (textbooks, slides, \textit{etc.}). The evaluation is carried out in three datasets. In two of them, improvements of up to 4.8{\%} and 7.3{\%} are obtained in the segmentation and topic identifications tasks, indicating that both tasks should be jointly modeled.
This paper focuses on how to extract multiple relational facts from unstructured text. Neural encoder-decoder models have provided a viable new approach for jointly extracting relations and entity pairs. However, these models either fail to deal with entity overlapping among relational facts, or neglect to produce the whole entity pairs. In this work, we propose a novel architecture that augments the encoder and decoder in two elegant ways. First, we apply a binary CNN classifier for each relation, which identifies all possible relations maintained in the text, while retaining the target relation representation to aid entity pair recognition. Second, we perform a multi-head attention over the text and a triplet attention with the target relation interacting with every token of the text to precisely produce all possible entity pairs in a sequential manner. Experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our proposed method successfully addresses the multiple relations and multiple entity pairs even with complex overlapping and significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Relation extraction is the task of determining the relation between two entities in a sentence. Distantly-supervised models are popular for this task. However, sentences can be long and two entities can be located far from each other in a sentence. The pieces of evidence supporting the presence of a relation between two entities may not be very direct, since the entities may be connected via some indirect links such as a third entity or via co-reference. Relation extraction in such scenarios becomes more challenging as we need to capture the long-distance interactions among the entities and other words in the sentence. Also, the words in a sentence do not contribute equally in identifying the relation between the two entities. To address this issue, we propose a novel and effective attention model which incorporates syntactic information of the sentence and a multi-factor attention mechanism. Experiments on the New York Times corpus show that our proposed model outperforms prior state-of-the-art models.
Event Detection (ED) is one of the most important task in the field of information extraction. The goal of ED is to find triggers in sentences and classify them into different event types. In previous works, the information of entity types are commonly utilized to benefit event detection. However, the sequential features of entity types have not been well utilized yet in the existing ED methods. In this paper, we propose a novel ED approach which learns sequential features from word sequences and entity type sequences separately, and combines these two types of sequential features with the help of a trigger-entity interaction learning module. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
Recent developments in Named Entity Recognition (NER) have resulted in better and better models. However, is there a glass ceiling? Do we know which types of errors are still hard or even impossible to correct? In this paper, we present a detailed analysis of the types of errors in state-of-the-art machine learning (ML) methods. Our study illustrates weak and strong points of the Stanford, CMU, FLAIR, ELMO and BERT models, as well as their shared limitations. We also introduce new techniques for improving annotation, training process, and for checking model quality and stability.
Document embeddings, created with methods ranging from simple heuristics to statistical and deep models, are widely applicable. Bag-of-vectors models for documents include the mean and quadratic approaches (Torki, 2018). We present evidence that quadratic statistics alone, without the mean information, can offer superior accuracy, fast document comparison, and compact document representations. In matching news articles to their comment threads, low-rank representations of only 3-4 times the size of the mean vector give most accurate matching, and in standard sentence comparison tasks, results are state of the art despite faster computation. Similarity measures are discussed, and the Frobenius product implicit in the proposed method is contrasted to Wasserstein or Bures metric from the transportation theory. We also shortly demonstrate matching of unordered word lists to documents, to measure topicality or sentiment of documents.
Supervised machine learning assumes the availability of fully-labeled data, but in many cases, such as low-resource languages, the only data available is partially annotated. We study the problem of Named Entity Recognition (NER) with partially annotated training data in which a fraction of the named entities are labeled, and all other tokens, entities or otherwise, are labeled as non-entity by default. In order to train on this noisy dataset, we need to distinguish between the true and false negatives. To this end, we introduce a constraint-driven iterative algorithm that learns to detect false negatives in the noisy set and downweigh them, resulting in a weighted training set. With this set, we train a weighted NER model. We evaluate our algorithm with weighted variants of neural and non-neural NER models on data in 8 languages from several language and script families, showing strong ability to learn from partial data. Finally, to show real-world efficacy, we evaluate on a Bengali NER corpus annotated by non-speakers, outperforming the prior state-of-the-art by over 5 points F1.
Event trigger extraction is an information extraction task of practical utility, yet it is challenging due to the difficulty of disambiguating word sense meaning. Previous approaches rely extensively on hand-crafted language-specific features and are applied mainly to English for which annotated datasets and Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools are available. However, the availability of such resources varies from one language to another. Recently, contextualized Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) models have established state-of-the-art performance for a variety of NLP tasks. However, there has not been much effort in exploring language transfer using BERT for event extraction. In this work, we treat event trigger extraction as a sequence tagging problem and propose a cross-lingual framework for training it without any hand-crafted features. We experiment with different flavors of transfer learning from high-resourced to low-resourced languages and compare the performance of different multilingual embeddings for event trigger extraction. Our results show that training in a multilingual setting outperforms language-specific models for both English and Chinese. Our work is the first to experiment with two event architecture variants in a cross-lingual setting, to show the effectiveness of contextualized embeddings obtained using BERT, and to explore and analyze its performance on Arabic.
We propose a novel deep structured learning framework for event temporal relation extraction. The model consists of 1) a recurrent neural network (RNN) to learn scoring functions for pair-wise relations, and 2) a structured support vector machine (SSVM) to make joint predictions. The neural network automatically learns representations that account for long-term contexts to provide robust features for the structured model, while the SSVM incorporates domain knowledge such as transitive closure of temporal relations as constraints to make better globally consistent decisions. By jointly training the two components, our model combines the benefits of both data-driven learning and knowledge exploitation. Experimental results on three high-quality event temporal relation datasets (TCR, MATRES, and TB-Dense) demonstrate that incorporated with pre-trained contextualized embeddings, the proposed model achieves significantly better performances than the state-of-the-art methods on all three datasets. We also provide thorough ablation studies to investigate our model.
A typical architecture for end-to-end entity linking systems consists of three steps: mention detection, candidate generation and entity disambiguation. In this study we investigate the following questions: (a) Can all those steps be learned jointly with a model for contextualized text-representations, i.e. BERT? (b) How much entity knowledge is already contained in pretrained BERT? (c) Does additional entity knowledge improve BERT{'}s performance in downstream tasks? To this end we propose an extreme simplification of the entity linking setup that works surprisingly well: simply cast it as a per token classification over the entire entity vocabulary (over $700K$ classes in our case). We show on an entity linking benchmark that (i) this model improves the entity representations over plain BERT, (ii) that it outperforms entity linking architectures that optimize the tasks separately and (iii) that it only comes second to the current state-of-the-art that does mention detection and entity disambiguation jointly. Additionally, we investigate the usefulness of entity-aware token-representations in the text-understanding benchmark GLUE, as well as the question answering benchmarks SQUAD{\textasciitilde}V2 and SWAG and also the EN-DE WMT14 machine translation benchmark. To our surprise, we find that most of those benchmarks do not benefit from additional entity knowledge, except for a task with very small training data, the RTE task in GLUE, which improves by 2{\%}.
Implicit discourse relations are not only more challenging to classify, but also to annotate, than their explicit counterparts. We tackle situations where training data for implicit relations are lacking, and exploit domain adaptation from explicit relations (Ji et al., 2015). We present an unsupervised adversarial domain adaptive network equipped with a reconstruction component. Our system outperforms prior works and other adversarial benchmarks for unsupervised domain adaptation. Additionally, we extend our system to take advantage of labeled data if some are available.
Remarkable success has been achieved in the last few years on some limited machine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks. However, it is still difficult to interpret the predictions of existing MRC models. In this paper, we focus on extracting evidence sentences that can explain or support the answers of multiple-choice MRC tasks, where the majority of answer options cannot be directly extracted from reference documents. Due to the lack of ground truth evidence sentence labels in most cases, we apply distant supervision to generate imperfect labels and then use them to train an evidence sentence extractor. To denoise the noisy labels, we apply a recently proposed deep probabilistic logic learning framework to incorporate both sentence-level and cross-sentence linguistic indicators for indirect supervision. We feed the extracted evidence sentences into existing MRC models and evaluate the end-to-end performance on three challenging multiple-choice MRC datasets: MultiRC, RACE, and DREAM, achieving comparable or better performance than the same models that take as input the full reference document. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work extracting evidence sentences for multiple-choice MRC.
Conversational AI systems are gaining a lot of attention recently in both industrial and scientific domains, providing a natural way of interaction between customers and adaptive intelligent systems. A key requirement in these systems is the ability to understand the user{'}s intent and provide adequate responses to them. One of the greatest challenges of language understanding (LU) services is efficient utterance (sentence) representation in vector space, which is an essential step for most ML tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for generating vector space representations of utterances using pair-wise similarity metrics. The proposed approach uses only a few corpora to tune the weights of the similarity metric without relying on external general purpose ontologies. Our experiments confirm that the generated vectors can improve the performance of LU services in unsupervised, semi-supervised and supervised learning tasks.
Conventional chatbots focus on two-party response generation, which simplifies the real dialogue scene. In this paper, we strive toward a novel task of Response Generation on Multi-Party Chatbot (RGMPC), where the generated responses heavily rely on the interlocutors{'} roles (e.g., speaker and addressee) and their utterances. Unfortunately, complex interactions among the interlocutors{'} roles make it challenging to precisely capture conversational contexts and interlocutors{'} information. Facing this challenge, we present a response generation model which incorporates Interlocutor-aware Contexts into Recurrent Encoder-Decoder frameworks (ICRED) for RGMPC. Specifically, we employ interactive representations to capture dialogue contexts for different interlocutors. Moreover, we leverage an addressee memory to enhance contextual interlocutor information for the target addressee. Finally, we construct a corpus for RGMPC based on an existing open-access dataset. Automatic and manual evaluations demonstrate that the ICRED remarkably outperforms strong baselines.
We introduce Episodic Memory QA, the task of answering personal user questions grounded on memory graph (MG), where episodic memories and related entity nodes are connected via relational edges. We create a new benchmark dataset first by generating synthetic memory graphs with simulated attributes, and by composing 100K QA pairs for the generated MG with bootstrapped scripts. To address the unique challenges for the proposed task, we propose Memory Graph Networks (MGN), a novel extension of memory networks to enable dynamic expansion of memory slots through graph traversals, thus able to answer queries in which contexts from multiple linked episodes and external knowledge are required. We then propose the Episodic Memory QA Net with multiple module networks to effectively handle various question types. Empirical results show improvement over the QA baselines in top-k answer prediction accuracy in the proposed task. The proposed model also generates a graph walk path and attention vectors for each predicted answer, providing a natural way to explain its QA reasoning.
We consider the importance of different utterances in the context for selecting the response usually depends on the current query. In this paper, we propose the model TripleNet to fully model the task with the triple {\textless}context, query, response{\textgreater} instead of {\textless}context, response {\textgreater} in previous works. The heart of TripleNet is a novel attention mechanism named triple attention to model the relationships within the triple at four levels. The new mechanism updates the representation of each element based on the attention with the other two concurrently and symmetrically.We match the triple {\textless}C, Q, R{\textgreater} centered on the response from char to context level for prediction.Experimental results on two large-scale multi-turn response selection datasets show that the proposed model can significantly outperform the state-of-the-art methods.
Machine reading comprehension (MRC) has attracted significant amounts of research attention recently, due to an increase of challenging reading comprehension datasets. In this paper, we aim to improve a MRC model{'}s ability to determine whether a question has an answer in a given context (e.g. the recently proposed SQuAD 2.0 task). The relation module consists of both semantic extraction and relational information. We first extract high level semantics as objects from both question and context with multi-head self-attentive pooling. These semantic objects are then passed to a relation network, which generates relationship scores for each object pair in a sentence. These scores are used to determine whether a question is non-answerable. We test the relation module on the SQuAD 2.0 dataset using both the BiDAF and BERT models as baseline readers. We obtain 1.8{\%} gain of F1 accuracy on top of the BiDAF reader, and 1.0{\%} on top of the BERT base model. These results show the effectiveness of our relation module on MRC.
Task oriented language understanding (LU) in human-to-machine (H2M) conversations has been extensively studied for personal digital assistants. In this work, we extend the task oriented LU problem to human-to-human (H2H) conversations, focusing on the slot tagging task. Recent advances on LU in H2M conversations have shown accuracy improvements by adding encoded knowledge from different sources. Inspired by this, we explore several variants of a bidirectional LSTM architecture that relies on different knowledge sources, such as Web data, search engine click logs, expert feedback from H2M models, as well as previous utterances in the conversation. We also propose ensemble techniques that aggregate these different knowledge sources into a single model. Experimental evaluation on a four-turn Twitter dataset in the restaurant and music domains shows improvements in the slot tagging F1-score of up to 6.09{\%} compared to existing approaches.
This paper describes a novel approach for the task of end-to-end argument labeling in shallow discourse parsing. Our method describes a decomposition of the overall labeling task into subtasks and a general distance-based aggregation procedure. For learning these subtasks, we train a recurrent neural network and gradually replace existing components of our baseline by our model. The model is trained and evaluated on the Penn Discourse Treebank 2 corpus. While it is not as good as knowledge-intense approaches, it clearly outperforms other models that are also trained without additional linguistic features.
Content of text data are often influenced by contextual factors which often evolve over time (e.g., content of social media are often influenced by topics covered in the major news streams). Existing language models do not consider the influence of such related evolving topics, and thus are not optimal. In this paper, we propose to incorporate such topical-influence into a language model to both improve its accuracy and enable cross-stream analysis of topical influences. Specifically, we propose a novel language model called Topical Influence Language Model (TILM), which is a novel extension of a neural language model to capture the influences on the contents in one text stream by the evolving topics in another related (or possibly same) text stream. Experimental results on six different text stream data comprised of conference paper titles show that the incorporation of evolving topical influence into a language model is beneficial and TILM outperforms multiple baselines in a challenging task of text forecasting. In addition to serving as a language model, TILM further enables interesting analysis of topical influence among multiple text streams.
In this paper, we propose a novel pretraining-based encoder-decoder framework, which can generate the output sequence based on the input sequence in a two-stage manner. For the encoder of our model, we encode the input sequence into context representations using BERT. For the decoder, there are two stages in our model, in the first stage, we use a Transformer-based decoder to generate a draft output sequence. In the second stage, we mask each word of the draft sequence and feed it to BERT, then by combining the input sequence and the draft representation generated by BERT, we use a Transformer-based decoder to predict the refined word for each masked position. To the best of our knowledge, our approach is the first method which applies the BERT into text generation tasks. As the first step in this direction, we evaluate our proposed method on the text summarization task. Experimental results show that our model achieves new state-of-the-art on both CNN/Daily Mail and New York Times datasets.
Hierarchical neural networks are often used to model inherent structures within dialogues. For goal-oriented dialogues, these models miss a mechanism adhering to the goals and neglect the distinct conversational patterns between two interlocutors. In this work, we propose Goal-Embedded Dual Hierarchical Attentional Encoder-Decoder (G-DuHA) able to center around goals and capture interlocutor-level disparity while modeling goal-oriented dialogues. Experiments on dialogue generation, response generation, and human evaluations demonstrate that the proposed model successfully generates higher-quality, more diverse and goal-centric dialogues. Moreover, we apply data augmentation via goal-oriented dialogue generation for task-oriented dialog systems with better performance achieved.
Automatic question generation (QG) is a useful yet challenging task in NLP. Recent neural network-based approaches represent the state-of-the-art in this task. In this work, we attempt to strengthen them significantly by adopting a holistic and novel generator-evaluator framework that directly optimizes objectives that reward semantics and structure. The \textit{generator} is a sequence-to-sequence model that incorporates the \textit{structure} and \textit{semantics} of the question being generated. The generator predicts an answer in the passage that the question can pivot on. Employing the copy and coverage mechanisms, it also acknowledges other contextually important (and possibly rare) keywords in the passage that the question needs to conform to, while not redundantly repeating words. The \textit{evaluator} model evaluates and assigns a reward to each predicted question based on its conformity to the \textit{structure} of ground-truth questions. We propose two novel QG-specific reward functions for text conformity and answer conformity of the generated question. The evaluator also employs structure-sensitive rewards based on evaluation measures such as BLEU, GLEU, and ROUGE-L, which are suitable for QG. In contrast, most of the previous works only optimize the cross-entropy loss, which can induce inconsistencies between training (objective) and testing (evaluation) measures. Our evaluation shows that our approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art systems on the widely-used SQuAD benchmark as per both automatic and human evaluation.
Various Seq2Seq learning models designed for machine translation were applied for abstractive summarization task recently. Despite these models provide high ROUGE scores, they are limited to generate comprehensive summaries with a high level of abstraction due to its degenerated attention distribution. We introduce Diverse Convolutional Seq2Seq Model(DivCNN Seq2Seq) using Determinantal Point Processes methods(Micro DPPs and Macro DPPs) to produce attention distribution considering both quality and diversity. Without breaking the end to end architecture, DivCNN Seq2Seq achieves a higher level of comprehensiveness compared to vanilla models and strong baselines. All the reproducible codes and datasets are available online.
Abstractive text summarization aims at generating human-like summaries by understanding and paraphrasing the given input content. Recent efforts based on sequence-to-sequence networks only allow the generation of a single summary. However, it is often desirable to accommodate the psycho-linguistic preferences of the intended audience while generating the summaries. In this work, we present a reinforcement learning based approach to generate formality-tailored summaries for an input article. Our novel input-dependent reward function aids in training the model with stylistic feedback on sampled and ground-truth summaries together. Once trained, the same model can generate formal and informal summary variants. Our automated and qualitative evaluations show the viability of the proposed framework.
Large neural language models trained on massive amounts of text have emerged as a formidable strategy for Natural Language Understanding tasks. However, the strength of these models as Natural Language Generators is less clear. Though anecdotal evidence suggests that these models generate better quality text, there has been no detailed study characterizing their generation abilities. In this work, we compare the performance of an extensively pretrained model, OpenAI GPT2-117 (Radford et al., 2019), to a state-of-the-art neural story generation model (Fan et al., 2018). By evaluating the generated text across a wide variety of automatic metrics, we characterize the ways in which pretrained models do, and do not, make better storytellers. We find that although GPT2-117 conditions more strongly on context, is more sensitive to ordering of events, and uses more unusual words, it is just as likely to produce repetitive and under-diverse text when using likelihood-maximizing decoding algorithms.
Residual has been widely applied to build deep neural networks with enhanced feature propagation and improved accuracy. In the literature, multiple variants of residual structure are proposed. However, most of them are manually designed for particular tasks and datasets and the combination of existing residual structures has not been well studied. In this work, we propose the Self-Adaptive Scaling (SAS) approach that automatically learns the design of residual structure from data. The proposed approach makes the best of various residual structures, resulting in a general architecture covering several existing ones. In this manner, we construct a learnable residual structure which can be easily integrated into a wide range of residual-based models. We evaluate our approach on various tasks concerning different modalities, including machine translation (IWSLT-2015 EN-VI and WMT-2014 EN-DE, EN-FR), image classification (CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100), and image captioning (MSCOCO). Empirical results show that the proposed approach consistently improves the residual-based models and exhibits desirable generalization ability. In particular, by incorporating the proposed approach to the Transformer model, we establish new state-of-the-arts on the IWSLT-2015 EN-VI low-resource machine translation dataset.
The Specialized Information Service Biodiversity Research (BIOfid) has been launched to mobilize valuable biological data from printed literature hidden in German libraries for over the past 250 years. In this project, we annotate German texts converted by OCR from historical scientific literature on the biodiversity of plants, birds, moths and butterflies. Our work enables the automatic extraction of biological information previously buried in the mass of papers and volumes. For this purpose, we generated training data for the tasks of Named Entity Recognition (NER) and Taxa Recognition (TR) in biological documents. We use this data to train a number of leading machine learning tools and create a gold standard for TR in biodiversity literature. More specifically, we perform a practical analysis of our newly generated BIOfid dataset through various downstream-task evaluations and establish a new state of the art for TR with 80.23{\%} F-score. In this sense, our paper lays the foundations for future work in the field of information extraction in biology texts.
The prevalence of informal language such as slang presents challenges for natural language systems, particularly in the automatic discovery of flexible word usages. Previous work has explored slang in terms of dictionary construction, sentiment analysis, word formation, and interpretation, but scarce research has attempted the basic problem of slang detection and identification. We examine the extent to which deep learning methods support automatic detection and identification of slang from natural sentences using a combination of bidirectional recurrent neural networks, conditional random field, and multilayer perceptron. We test these models based on a comprehensive set of linguistic features in sentence-level detection and token-level identification of slang. We found that a prominent feature of slang is the surprising use of words across syntactic categories or syntactic shift (e.g., verb-noun). Our best models detect the presence of slang at the sentence level with an F1-score of 0.80 and identify its exact position at the token level with an F1-Score of 0.50.
In sequence modeling tasks the token order matters, but this information can be partially lost due to the discretization of the sequence into data points. In this paper, we study the imbalance between the way certain token pairs are included in data points and others are not. We denote this a token order imbalance (TOI) and we link the partial sequence information loss to a diminished performance of the system as a whole, both in text and speech processing tasks. We then provide a mechanism to leverage the full token order information{---}Alleviated TOI{---}by iteratively overlapping the token composition of data points. For recurrent networks, we use prime numbers for the batch size to avoid redundancies when building batches from overlapped data points. The proposed method achieved state of the art performance in both text and speech related tasks.
Standard autoregressive seq2seq models are easily trained by max-likelihood, but tend to show poor results under small-data conditions. We introduce a class of seq2seq models, GAMs (Global Autoregressive Models), which combine an autoregressive component with a log-linear component, allowing the use of global \textit{a priori} features to compensate for lack of data. We train these models in two steps. In the first step, we obtain an \textit{unnormalized} GAM that maximizes the likelihood of the data, but is improper for fast inference or evaluation. In the second step, we use this GAM to train (by distillation) a second autoregressive model that approximates the \textit{normalized} distribution associated with the GAM, and can be used for fast inference and evaluation. Our experiments focus on language modelling under synthetic conditions and show a strong perplexity reduction of using the second autoregressive model over the standard one.
Answer selection aims at identifying the correct answer for a given question from a set of potentially correct answers. Contrary to previous works, which typically focus on the semantic similarity between a question and its answer, our hypothesis is that question-answer pairs are often in analogical relation to each other. Using analogical inference as our use case, we propose a framework and a neural network architecture for learning dedicated sentence embeddings that preserve analogical properties in the semantic space. We evaluate the proposed method on benchmark datasets for answer selection and demonstrate that our sentence embeddings indeed capture analogical properties better than conventional embeddings, and that analogy-based question answering outperforms a comparable similarity-based technique.
We propose a simple and effective method to inject word-level information into character-aware neural language models. Unlike previous approaches which usually inject word-level information at the input of a long short-term memory (LSTM) network, we inject it into the softmax function. The resultant model can be seen as a combination of character-aware language model and simple word-level language model. Our injection method can also be used together with previous methods. Through the experiments on 14 typologically diverse languages, we empirically show that our injection method, when used together with the previous methods, works better than the previous methods, including a gating mechanism, averaging, and concatenation of word vectors. We also provide a comprehensive comparison of these injection methods.
In this paper, we focus on quantifying model stability as a function of random seed by investigating the effects of the induced randomness on model performance and the robustness of the model in general. We specifically perform a controlled study on the effect of random seeds on the behaviour of attention, gradient-based and surrogate model based (LIME) interpretations. Our analysis suggests that random seeds can adversely affect the consistency of models resulting in counterfactual interpretations. We propose a technique called Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (ASWA) and an extension called Norm-filtered Aggressive Stochastic Weight Averaging (NASWA) which improves the stability of models over random seeds. With our ASWA and NASWA based optimization, we are able to improve the robustness of the original model, on average reducing the standard deviation of the model{'}s performance by 72{\%}.
Work on Abusive Language Detection has tackled a wide range of subtasks and domains. As a result of this, there exists a great deal of redundancy and non-generalisability between datasets. Through experiments on cross-dataset training and testing, the paper reveals that the preconceived notion of including more non-abusive samples in a dataset (to emulate reality) may have a detrimental effect on the generalisability of a model trained on that data. Hence a hierarchical annotation model is utilised here to reveal redundancies in existing datasets and to help reduce redundancy in future efforts.
Authorship attribution is an active research area which has been prevalent for many decades. Nevertheless, the majority of approaches consider problem sizes of a few candidate authors only, making them difficult to apply to recent scenarios incorporating thousands of authors emerging due to the manifold means to digitally share text. In this study, we focus on such large-scale problems and propose to effectively reduce the number of candidate authors before applying common attribution techniques. By utilizing document embeddings, we show on a novel, comprehensive dataset collection that the set of candidate authors can be reduced with high accuracy. Moreover, we show that common authorship attribution methods substantially benefit from a preliminary reduction if thousands of authors are involved.
Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) is to predict the sentiment polarity towards a particular aspect in a sentence. Recently, this task has been widely addressed by the neural attention mechanism, which computes attention weights to softly select words for generating aspect-specific sentence representations. The attention is expected to concentrate on opinion words for accurate sentiment prediction. However, attention is prone to be distracted by noisy or misleading words, or opinion words from other aspects. In this paper, we propose an alternative hard-selection approach, which determines the start and end positions of the opinion snippet, and selects the words between these two positions for sentiment prediction. Specifically, we learn deep associations between the sentence and aspect, and the long-term dependencies within the sentence by leveraging the pre-trained BERT model. We further detect the opinion snippet by self-critical reinforcement learning. Especially, experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and prove that our hard-selection approach outperforms soft-selection approaches when handling multi-aspect sentences.
In this article we present an extended version of PolEmo {--} a corpus of consumer reviews from 4 domains: medicine, hotels, products and school. Current version (PolEmo 2.0) contains 8,216 reviews having 57,466 sentences. Each text and sentence was manually annotated with sentiment in 2+1 scheme, which gives a total of 197,046 annotations. We obtained a high value of Positive Specific Agreement, which is 0.91 for texts and 0.88 for sentences. PolEmo 2.0 is publicly available under a Creative Commons copyright license. We explored recent deep learning approaches for the recognition of sentiment, such as Bi-directional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM) and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT).
In this paper, we look beyond the traditional population-level sentiment modeling and consider the individuality in a person{'}s expressions by discovering both textual and contextual information. In particular, we construct a hierarchical neural network that leverages valuable information from a person{'}s past expressions, and offer a better understanding of the sentiment from the expresser{'}s perspective. Additionally, we investigate how a person{'}s sentiment changes over time so that recent incidents or opinions may have more effect on the person{'}s current sentiment than the old ones. Psychological studies have also shown that individual variation exists in how easily people change their sentiments. In order to model such traits, we develop a modified attention mechanism with Hawkes process applied on top of a recurrent network for a user-specific design. Implemented with automatically labeled Twitter data, the proposed model has shown positive results employing different input formulations for representing the concerned information.
Text classification plays a crucial role for understanding natural language in a wide range of applications. Most existing approaches mainly focus on long text classification (e.g., blogs, documents, paragraphs). However, they cannot easily be applied to short text because of its sparsity and lack of context. In this paper, we propose a new model called cluster-gated convolutional neural network (CGCNN), which jointly explores word-level clustering and text classification in an end-to-end manner. Specifically, the proposed model firstly uses a bi-directional long short-term memory to learn word representations. Then, it leverages a soft clustering method to explore their semantic relation with the cluster centers, and takes linear transformation on text representations. It develops a cluster-dependent gated convolutional layer to further control the cluster-dependent feature flows. Experimental results on five commonly used datasets show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art models.
In hospitals, critical care patients are often susceptible to various complications that adversely affect their morbidity and mortality. Digitized patient data from Electronic Health Records (EHRs) can be utilized to facilitate risk stratification accurately and provide prioritized care. Existing clinical decision support systems are heavily reliant on the structured nature of the EHRs. However, the valuable patient-specific data contained in unstructured clinical notes are often manually transcribed into EHRs. The prolific use of extensive medical jargon, heterogeneity, sparsity, rawness, inconsistent abbreviations, and complex structure of the clinical notes poses significant challenges, and also results in a loss of information during the manual conversion process. In this work, we employ two coherence-based topic modeling approaches to model the free-text in the unstructured clinical nursing notes and capture its semantic textual features with the emphasis on human interpretability. Furthermore, we present FarSight, a long-term aggregation mechanism intended to detect the onset of disease with the earliest recorded symptoms and infections. We utilize the predictive capabilities of deep neural models for the clinical task of risk stratification through ICD-9 code group prediction. Our experimental validation on MIMIC-III (v1.4) database underlined the efficacy of FarSight with coherence-based topic modeling, in extracting discriminative clinical features from the unstructured nursing notes. The proposed approach achieved a superior predictive performance when benchmarked against the structured EHR data based state-of-the-art model, with an improvement of 11.50{\%} in AUPRC and 1.16{\%} in AUROC.
We investigate the political roles of {``}Internet trolls{''} in social media. Political trolls, such as the ones linked to the Russian Internet Research Agency (IRA), have recently gained enormous attention for their ability to sway public opinion and even influence elections. Analysis of the online traces of trolls has shown different behavioral patterns, which target different slices of the population. However, this analysis is manual and labor-intensive, thus making it impractical as a first-response tool for newly-discovered troll farms. In this paper, we show how to automate this analysis by using machine learning in a realistic setting. In particular, we show how to classify trolls according to their political role {---}left, news feed, right{---} by using features extracted from social media, i.e., Twitter, in two scenarios: (i) in a traditional supervised learning scenario, where labels for trolls are available, and (ii) in a distant supervision scenario, where labels for trolls are not available, and we rely on more-commonly-available labels for news outlets mentioned by the trolls. Technically, we leverage the community structure and the text of the messages in the online social network of trolls represented as a graph, from which we extract several types of learned representations, i.e., embeddings, for the trolls. Experiments on the {``}IRA Russian Troll{''} dataset show that our methodology improves over the state-of-the-art in the first scenario, while providing a compelling case for the second scenario, which has not been explored in the literature thus far.
Sentiment analysis in low-resource languages suffers from the lack of training data. Cross-lingual sentiment analysis (CLSA) aims to improve the performance on these languages by leveraging annotated data from other languages. Recent studies have shown that CLSA can be performed in a fully unsupervised manner, without exploiting either target language supervision or cross-lingual supervision. However, these methods rely heavily on unsupervised cross-lingual word embeddings (CLWE), which has been shown to have serious drawbacks on distant language pairs (e.g. English - Japanese). In this paper, we propose an end-to-end CLSA model by leveraging unlabeled data in multiple languages and multiple domains and eliminate the need for unsupervised CLWE. Our model applies to two CLSA settings: the traditional cross-lingual in-domain setting and the more challenging cross-lingual cross-domain setting. We empirically evaluate our approach on the multilingual multi-domain Amazon review dataset. Experimental results show that our model outperforms the baselines by a large margin despite its minimal resource requirement.
I will follow the tradition set down by most previous LTA recipients by describing how events in my personal history propelled me toward the concepts, theories, and algorithms I have helped to develop and have become known for. This historical perspective is quite different from a paper setting forth some current technical results. Some former recipients, Martin Kay for example, were intrigued by language from a very early age. That was not the case for me. I started as an undergraduate at the University of California Berkeley with a major concentration in physics. I decided at one point that physical reality was a little too messy, and I also discovered that I was not interested in spending long hours in a laboratory. So after a year or two I switched to math. That carried me forward to the middle of my fourth and ﬁnal year, when I began to contemplate a future as a mathematician. That also seemed a little dry and unappealing. I thought I should look around, even at that late date, and maybe ﬁnd a specialization that was a little more social and, for me, a little more engaging. 1. Getting Started I mentioned this to a friend during a brief ride in an elevator. He told me about a professor in the Psychology Department who was offering an individual major in what he called “language behavior.” The major wasn’t actually inside a department because it combined material from a bunch of separate disciplines: psychology, linguistics, philosophy, anthropology, and maybe even mathematics. That sounded pretty interesting, and an important property at that late stage of my undergraduate career was that it had no ofﬁcial prerequisite courses. ∗ An abridged version of this article was presented on receipt of the ACL’s Lifetime Achievement Award in 2019. https://doi.org/10.1162/COLI a 00359 © 2019 Association for Computational Linguistics Published under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) license  Computational Linguistics  Volume 45, Number 4  The professor, Dan Slobin, was an expert in child language acquisition, and, as I later learned, child language acquisition played a prominent ideological role in the newly popular approach to linguistics, transformational grammar. I looked at some of the courses that other students had put into their individual-major schedules and at some of the core readings in psycholinguistics that they had included. The ﬁeld was brand new, it didn’t have the long history of other disciplines, and therefore not a lot of material to be mastered before jumping in. And I realized that this was a neat application of formal mathematical methods to a collection of humanistic problems. All to the good—I signed up with Dan. I also decided to take the few remaining math courses that I needed to complete that major as well. So at that point I guess I had become, if only by accident, a mathematical psycholinguist. I was awarded a double-major undergraduate degree, and I was admitted to graduate school in social psychology, which is where psycholinguistics was located at Harvard. I encountered a few high-level ideas during that undergraduate period that have reverberated throughout the course of my career. Chomsky’s (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax had appeared just a few years before. It provided some formal details of the ﬁrst main revision to the basic machinery of transformational grammar, but that wasn’t what struck me. Rather, there was a simple statement at the beginning that set forth a particular view of the relation between a speaker’s knowledge of language, the result of learning a language, and the ability to put that knowledge to use in comprehension and production. He said: No doubt, a reasonable model of language use will incorporate, as a basic component, the generative grammar that expresses the speaker-hearer’s knowledge of the language; but this generative grammar does not, in itself, prescribe the character or functioning of a perceptual model or a model of speech production. (Chomsky 1965, page 9) This is a clear statement of what became known as the Competence Hypothesis. I understood it as making two claims: First, that a representation of linguistic knowledge should play a causal role in the mental processes of everyday communication by language. And second, that linguistic knowledge was only one of many components of a larger model of language performance. The ﬁrst claim, I thought, distinguished this application of formal descriptions from the way that mathematical characterizations are deployed in most other sciences. The sun, for example, behaves according to the partial differential equations for energy transport, but presumably it does not solve a representation of those equations in order to decide what to do next. But the proposition here is that the psychological system encodes and then interprets something that correlates with generalizations about the properties of language that emerge from linguistic investigation. That would be a very neat state of affairs, if it were true. The second claim places this in the context of another powerful conception, the notion of a “nearly decomposable system” that Herb Simon put forward in a short essay entitled The Architecture of Complexity (Simon 1962). Simon argued that apparently complicated systems, if created artiﬁcially or through an evolutionary process, are likely to be recursively decomposable into collections of separate components. Such systems appear complicated because these components interact in non-negligible ways. But those interactions are relatively simple compared to the interaction of elements within the individual components. It is thus fruitful, Simon would say, to construct scientiﬁc explanations of such systems by treating each of the components independently at ﬁrst, 608  Kaplan  Computational Psycholinguistics  and then layering on top an account of their interactions. Chomsky’s statement was consistent with this kind of decomposable architecture, although he never got around to the layering-on-top part. That became the focus of some of my work. You will have noticed that my story so far has not included a mention of computers or computation. I had been involved in computing during my physics period—I had a summer job computing the ﬂuorescent signature of a high-altitude nuclear explosion, very topical in those days. And I had taken numerical methods courses in the math curriculum. But there was as yet no connection between computing and language behavior. Because I had ﬁnished up at an odd time, in the spring of 1968, there was a sixmonth interlude between leaving Berkeley and starting up at Harvard. I went home to Los Angeles to look for a temporary job. In another chance encounter, another friend with connections to the Rand Corporation told me that Rand had a linguistic group that maybe I could hook up with. I sent in my papers and went for an interview. I found that they did have an interest in mathematical psycholinguistics, of all things, and that I could come on as a six-month intern. Dave Hays was the head of a group that included Martin Kay, and Lauri Karttunen was there just ﬁnishing his dissertation. You may know that Dave was one of the founders of our ﬁeld. He coined the term “computational linguistics,” helped to create the American precursor organization of the ACL, and was involved in setting up the international COLING conferences. He was also a very smart man, in many ways ahead of his time. He was an early advocate for dependency grammar, for example, as a counter to transformational grammar and immediate constituent approaches (Hays 1964). And in my case I remember that he strongly urged me to learn about regular languages and ﬁnite-state machines. Having read Syntactic Structures (Chomsky 1957), I knew of course that regular languages were totally uninteresting. And coming from Berkeley I thought that the acronym FSM stood for Free Speech Movement. But I did try to learn at least a little bit. For my ﬁrst project, Dave sent me down the hall to work with Lauri on some semantic issues. As I recall, our computational task was to implement a semantic network within a Rand time-sharing system. I was also involved in Lauri’s linguistic investigation into some properties of noun-phrase reference—the contexts in which deﬁnite and indeﬁnite descriptions can be properly used. Semantics turned out not to be so hard. I went back to Dave after a few months and told him that we had ﬁnished that project. We now wanted to add on a front end to make it easier to interact with our system. He told me to go down the hall in the other direction and see what I could get from Martin Kay. Martin had developed a parsing program that was not based on transformational grammar but seemed expressive enough to recognize the patterns of natural language (Kay 1967). It was a system for rewriting sequences of trees into sequences of trees, with Turing machine power. But it used a very efﬁcient data structure, called the chart, to hold the intermediate state of the computation. There was a missing ingredient, however: Martin had the program, but he didn’t yet have an English grammar to drive it. That became my project for the rest of the summer, and in some sense, for the rest of my life. That was how I learned about parsing; that was my entry into computational linguistics. 2. Psycholinguistics The summer came to an end and I reverted to my psycholinguistic studies at Harvard. My advisor was Roger Brown, probably the pre-eminent ﬁgure in child language 609  Computational Linguistics  Volume 45, Number 4  acquisition at the time, and language acquisition was still a focus particularly at Harvard. As a ﬁrst experiment, I decided to see whether two-year-olds were able to make some of the deﬁnite/indeﬁnite reference distinctions that Lauri and I had worked on. The experiment failed—the children ignored both what I said to them and the rubber ducks that I gave them to play with. On the basis of that experience I decided I didn’t have the patience or interest needed to work with children. I shifted to adult comprehension. As per Chomsky’s suggestion in Aspects, psycholinguists had investigated a theory of comprehension that incorporated transformational grammar as its repository of linguistic knowledge. They tested the simple assumption that, if that were the case, the complexity of sentence comprehension ought to be proportional to the number of grammatical transformations that applied in the linguistic derivation of a sentence. This idea, called the Derivational Theory of Complexity, received some initial empirical support. The measurement techniques of that era were crude at best, but it appeared in early studies that passive and negative sentences, involving two transformations, were more difﬁcult for people to deal with than simple declaratives (Miller and McKean 1964). Later experiments, however, showed the opposite effect: application of an additional transformation had the effect of reducing psychological complexity. Slobin (1968), for example, observed this in the case of the transformation that deletes the agent by-phrase of a passive sentence. The sentence gets shorter, and easier to process. By the late 1960s psycholinguists had more or less given up on the Derivational Theory of Complexity. In fact, they had basically given up on Chomsky’s suggestion that a model of performance would incorporate a representation of the native speaker’s linguist knowledge. They began to operate independently of linguistics, to form heuristic models of language behavior by generalizing just from experimental results, to summarize experimental results in a collection of what they called “perceptual strategies.” One strategy, that the ﬁrst Noun-Verb-Noun sequence in an English sentence is taken as the Agent-Action-Object, worked for simple actives but not for passives, thus accounting for the fact that passives seem to be harder to process. The problem, of course, was that this did not explain how passives could be understood at all—there was no obvious back-off when a strategy failed to apply. Although the Derivational Theory of Complexity did not work out, retreating to a collection of disconnected perceptual strategies seemed like an overly weak response. The problem, I thought, was not in the general conception laid out in the Competence Hypothesis that systematic knowledge of language should be incorporated in performance models. Rather, the mistake was in choosing a grammatical framework, the transformational formalism, whose processing characteristics were so obviously unrealistic. Mainstream linguistics was locked onto that formalism, but I knew from my work with Martin’s parser that there might be other sufﬁciently expressive alternatives and perhaps some that are psychologically more plausible. My reputation as a grammar engineer somehow followed me from Rand to Cambridge. A project was starting up at Bolt Beranek and Newman to build a natural language interface that would enable lunar geologists to access geophysical data on the moon rocks that had been brought back from the Apollo missions. Bill Woods was heading the project, and one of the system’s key components was the Augmented Transition Network parser that he had developed (Woods 1970). As is well known, an ATN grammar, as illustrated in Figure 1, consists of a collection of ﬁnite-state transition networks, each of which describes how a phrase of a given category (S, NP, etc.) can be realized, and a recursive control that allows for one phrase to be embedded in another. The transitions are augmented with actions that can store 610  Kaplan  Computational Psycholinguistics  PUSH NP  S/  PUSH NP/ S/SUBJ  CAT V  VP/V  3  POP (SBUILD) S/VP  
To ensure readability, text is often written and presented with due formatting. These text formatting devices help the writer to effectively convey the narrative. At the same time, these help the readers pick up the structure of the discourse and comprehend the conveyed information. There have been a number of linguistic theories on discourse structure of text. However, these theories only consider unformatted text. Multimedia text contains rich formatting features that can be leveraged for various NLP tasks. In this article, we study some of these discourse features in multimedia text and what communicative function they fulfill in the context. As a case study, we use these features to harvest structured subject knowledge of geometry from textbooks. We conclude that the discourse and text layout features provide information that is complementary to lexical semantic information. Finally, we show that the harvested structured knowledge can be used to improve an existing solver for geometry problems, making it more accurate as well as more explainable.
Language change across space and time is one of the main concerns in historical linguistics. In this article, we develop tools to assist researchers and domain experts in the study of language evolution.First, we introduce a method to automatically determine whether two words are cognates. We propose an algorithm for extracting cognates from electronic dictionaries that contain etymological information. Having built a data set of related words, we further develop machine learning methods based on orthographic alignment for identifying cognates. We use aligned subsequences as features for classification algorithms in order to infer rules for linguistic changes undergone by words when entering new languages and to discriminate between cognates and non-cognates.Second, we extend the method to a finer-grained level, to identify the type of relationship between words. Discriminating between cognates and borrowings provides a deeper insight into the history of a language and allows a better characterization of language relatedness. We show that orthographic features have discriminative power and we analyze the underlying linguistic factors that prove relevant in the classification task. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt of this kind.Third, we develop a machine learning method for automatically producing related words. We focus on reconstructing proto-words, but we also address two related sub-problems, producing modern word forms and producing cognates. The task of reconstructing proto-words consists of recreating the words in an ancient language from its modern daughter languages. Having modern word forms in multiple Romance languages, we infer the form of their common Latin ancestors. Our approach relies on the regularities that occurred when words entered the modern languages. We leverage information from several modern languages, building an ensemble system for reconstructing proto-words. We apply our method to multiple data sets, showing that our approach improves on previous results, also having the advantage of requiring less input data, which is essential in historical linguistics, where resources are generally scarce.
In fine-grained opinion mining, extracting aspect terms (a.k.a. opinion targets) and opinion terms (a.k.a. opinion expressions) from user-generated texts is the most fundamental task in order to generate structured opinion summarization. Existing studies have shown that the syntactic relations between aspect and opinion words play an important role for aspect and opinion terms extraction. However, most of the works either relied on predefined rules or separated relation mining with feature learning. Moreover, these works only focused on single-domain extraction, which failed to adapt well to other domains of interest where only unlabeled data are available. In real-world scenarios, annotated resources are extremely scarce for many domains, motivating knowledge transfer strategies from labeled source domain(s) to any unlabeled target domain. We observe that syntactic relations among target words to be extracted are not only crucial for single-domain extraction, but also serve as invariant {``}pivot{''} information to bridge the gap between different domains. In this article, we explore the constructions of recursive neural networks based on the dependency tree of each sentence for associating syntactic structure with feature learning. Furthermore, we construct transferable recursive neural networks to automatically learn the domain-invariant fine-grained interactions among aspect words and opinion words. The transferability is built on an auxiliary task and a conditional domain adversarial network to reduce domain distribution difference in the hidden spaces effectively in word level through syntactic relations. Specifically, the auxiliary task builds structural correspondences across domains by predicting the dependency relation for each path of the dependency tree in the recursive neural network. The conditional domain adversarial network helps to learn domain-invariant hidden representation for each word conditioned on the syntactic structure. In the end, we integrate the recursive neural network with a sequence labeling classifier on top that models contextual influence in the final predictions. Extensive experiments and analysis are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model and each component on three benchmark data sets.
We present a framework for generating natural language description from structured data such as tables; the problem comes under the category of data-to-text natural language generation (NLG). Modern data-to-text NLG systems typically use end-to-end statistical and neural architectures that learn from a limited amount of task-specific labeled data, and therefore exhibit limited scalability, domain-adaptability, and interpretability. Unlike these systems, ours is a modular, pipeline-based approach, and does not require task-specific parallel data. Rather, it relies on monolingual corpora and basic off-the-shelf NLP tools. This makes our system more scalable and easily adaptable to newer domains.Our system utilizes a three-staged pipeline that: (i) converts entries in the structured data to canonical form, (ii) generates simple sentences for each atomic entry in the canonicalized representation, and (iii) combines the sentences to produce a coherent, fluent, and adequate paragraph description through sentence compounding and co-reference replacement modules. Experiments on a benchmark mixed-domain data set curated for paragraph description from tables reveals the superiority of our system over existing data-to-text approaches. We also demonstrate the robustness of our system in accepting other popular data sets covering diverse data types such as knowledge graphs and key-value maps.
Argument mining is the automatic identification and extraction of the structure of inference and reasoning expressed as arguments presented in natural language. Understanding argumentative structure makes it possible to determine not only what positions people are adopting, but also why they hold the opinions they do, providing valuable insights in domains as diverse as financial market prediction and public relations. This survey explores the techniques that establish the foundations for argument mining, provides a review of recent advances in argument mining techniques, and discusses the challenges faced in automatically extracting a deeper understanding of reasoning expressed in language in general.
The terms {``}language{''} and {``}dialect{''} are ingrained, but linguists nevertheless tend to agree that it is impossible to apply a non-arbitrary distinction such that two speech varieties can be identified as either distinct languages or two dialects of one and the same language. A database of lexical information for more than 7,500 speech varieties, however, unveils a strong tendency for linguistic distances to be bimodally distributed. For a given language group the linguistic distances pertaining to either cluster can be teased apart, identifying a mixture of normal distributions within the data and then separating them fitting curves and finding the point where they cross. The thresholds identified are remarkably consistent across data sets, qualifying their mean as a universal criterion for distinguishing between language and dialect pairs. The mean of the thresholds identified translates into a temporal distance of around one to one-and-a-half millennia (1,075{--}1,635 years).
This article describes a compositional distributional method to generate contextualized senses of words and identify their appropriate translations in the target language using monolingual corpora. Word translation is modeled in the same way as contextualization of word meaning, but in a bilingual vector space. The contextualization of meaning is carried out by means of distributional composition within a structured vector space with syntactic dependencies, and the bilingual space is created by means of transfer rules and a bilingual dictionary. A phrase in the source language, consisting of a head and a dependent, is translated into the target language by selecting both the nearest neighbor of the head given the dependent, and the nearest neighbor of the dependent given the head. This process is expanded to larger phrases by means of incremental composition. Experiments were performed on English and Spanish monolingual corpora in order to translate phrasal verbs in context. A new bilingual data set to evaluate strategies aimed at translating phrasal verbs in restricted syntactic domains has been created and released.
We present a detailed theoretical and computational analysis of the Watset meta-algorithm for fuzzy graph clustering, which has been found to be widely applicable in a variety of domains. This algorithm creates an intermediate representation of the input graph, which reflects the {``}ambiguity{''} of its nodes. Then, it uses hard clustering to discover clusters in this {``}disambiguated{''} intermediate graph. After outlining the approach and analyzing its computational complexity, we demonstrate that Watset shows competitive results in three applications: unsupervised synset induction from a synonymy graph, unsupervised semantic frame induction from dependency triples, and unsupervised semantic class induction from a distributional thesaurus. Our algorithm is generic and can also be applied to other networks of linguistic data.
In this article, we evaluate computational models of natural language with respect to the universal statistical behaviors of natural language. Statistical mechanical analyses have revealed that natural language text is characterized by scaling properties, which quantify the global structure in the vocabulary population and the long memory of a text. We study whether five scaling properties (given by Zipf{'}s law, Heaps{'} law, Ebeling{'}s method, Taylor{'}s law, and long-range correlation analysis) can serve for evaluation of computational models. Specifically, we test n-gram language models, a probabilistic context-free grammar, language models based on Simon/Pitman-Yor processes, neural language models, and generative adversarial networks for text generation. Our analysis reveals that language models based on recurrent neural networks with a gating mechanism (i.e., long short-term memory; a gated recurrent unit; and quasi-recurrent neural networks) are the only computational models that can reproduce the long memory behavior of natural language. Furthermore, through comparison with recently proposed model-based evaluation methods, we find that the exponent of Taylor{'}s law is a good indicator of model quality.
Automatic Machine Translation (MT) evaluation is an active field of research, with a handful of new metrics devised every year. Evaluation metrics are generally benchmarked against manual assessment of translation quality, with performance measured in terms of overall correlation with human scores. Much work has been dedicated to the improvement of evaluation metrics to achieve a higher correlation with human judgments. However, little insight has been provided regarding the weaknesses and strengths of existing approaches and their behavior in different settings. In this work we conduct a broad meta-evaluation study of the performance of a wide range of evaluation metrics focusing on three major aspects. First, we analyze the performance of the metrics when faced with different levels of translation quality, proposing a local dependency measure as an alternative to the standard, global correlation coefficient. We show that metric performance varies significantly across different levels of MT quality: Metrics perform poorly when faced with low-quality translations and are not able to capture nuanced quality distinctions. Interestingly, we show that evaluating low-quality translations is also more challenging for humans. Second, we show that metrics are more reliable when evaluating neural MT than the traditional statistical MT systems. Finally, we show that the difference in the evaluation accuracy for different metrics is maintained even if the gold standard scores are based on different criteria.
Linguistic typology aims to capture structural and semantic variation across the world{'}s languages. A large-scale typology could provide excellent guidance for multilingual Natural Language Processing (NLP), particularly for languages that suffer from the lack of human labeled resources. We present an extensive literature survey on the use of typological information in the development of NLP techniques. Our survey demonstrates that to date, the use of information in existing typological databases has resulted in consistent but modest improvements in system performance. We show that this is due to both intrinsic limitations of databases (in terms of coverage and feature granularity) and under-utilization of the typological features included in them. We advocate for a new approach that adapts the broad and discrete nature of typological categories to the contextual and continuous nature of machine learning algorithms used in contemporary NLP. In particular, we suggest that such an approach could be facilitated by recent developments in data-driven induction of typological knowledge.
We borrow the concept of representation learning from deep learning research, and we argue that the quest for Greenbergian implicational universals can be reformulated as the learning of good latent representations of languages, or sequences of surface typological features. By projecting languages into latent representations and performing inference in the latent space, we can handle complex dependencies among features in an implicit manner. The most challenging problem in turning the idea into a concrete computational model is the alarmingly large number of missing values in existing typological databases. To address this problem, we keep the number of model parameters relatively small to avoid overfitting, adopt the Bayesian learning framework for its robustness, and exploit phylogenetically and/or spatially related languages as additional clues. Experiments show that the proposed model recovers missing values more accurately than others and that some latent variables exhibit phylogenetic and spatial signals comparable to those of surface features.
Event processing is an active area of research in the Natural Language Processing community, but resources and automatic systems developed so far have mainly addressed contemporary texts. However, the recognition and elaboration of events is a crucial step when dealing with historical texts Particularly in the current era of massive digitization of historical sources: Research in this domain can lead to the development of methodologies and tools that can assist historians in enhancing their work, while having an impact also on the field of Natural Language Processing. Our work aims at shedding light on the complex concept of events when dealing with historical texts. More specifically, we introduce new annotation guidelines for event mentions and types, categorized into 22 classes. Then, we annotate a historical corpus accordingly, and compare two approaches for automatic event detection and classification following this novel scheme. We believe that this work can foster research in a field of inquiry as yet underestimated in the area of Temporal Information Processing. To this end, we release new annotation guidelines, a corpus, and new models for automatic annotation.
Neural machine translation (NMT) has shown great success as a new alternative to the traditional Statistical Machine Translation model in multiple languages. Early NMT models are based on sequence-to-sequence learning that encodes a sequence of source words into a vector space and generates another sequence of target words from the vector. In those NMT models, sentences are simply treated as sequences of words without any internal structure. In this article, we focus on the role of the syntactic structure of source sentences and propose a novel end-to-end syntactic NMT model, which we call a tree-to-sequence NMT model, extending a sequence-to-sequence model with the source-side phrase structure. Our proposed model has an attention mechanism that enables the decoder to generate a translated word while softly aligning it with phrases as well as words of the source sentence. We have empirically compared the proposed model with sequence-to-sequence models in various settings on Chinese-to-Japanese and English-to-Japanese translation tasks. Our experimental results suggest that the use of syntactic structure can be beneficial when the training data set is small, but is not as effective as using a bi-directional encoder. As the size of training data set increases, the benefits of using a syntactic tree tends to diminish.
Machine learning, including neural network techniques, have been applied to virtually every domain in natural language processing. One problem that has been somewhat resistant to effective machine learning solutions is text normalization for speech applications such as text-to-speech synthesis (TTS). In this application, one must decide, for example, that 123 is verbalized as one hundred twenty three in 123 pages but as one twenty three in 123 King Ave. For this task, state-of-the-art industrial systems depend heavily on hand-written language-specific grammars.We propose neural network models that treat text normalization for TTS as a sequence-to-sequence problem, in which the input is a text token in context, and the output is the verbalization of that token. We find that the most effective model, in accuracy and efficiency, is one where the sentential context is computed once and the results of that computation are combined with the computation of each token in sequence to compute the verbalization. This model allows for a great deal of flexibility in terms of representing the context, and also allows us to integrate tagging and segmentation into the process.These models perform very well overall, but occasionally they will predict wildly inappropriate verbalizations, such as reading 3 cm as three kilometers. Although rare, such verbalizations are a major issue for TTS applications. We thus use finite-state covering grammars to guide the neural models, either during training and decoding, or just during decoding, away from such {``}unrecoverable{''} errors. Such grammars can largely be learned from data.
We present algorithms for extracting Hyperedge Replacement Grammar (HRG) rules from a graph along with a vertex order. Our algorithms are based on finding a tree decomposition of smallest width, relative to the vertex order, and then extracting one rule for each node in this structure. The assumption of a fixed order for the vertices of the input graph makes it possible to solve the problem in polynomial time, in contrast to the fact that the problem of finding optimal tree decompositions for a graph is NP-hard. We also present polynomial-time algorithms for parsing based on our HRGs, where the input is a vertex sequence and the output is a graph structure. The intended application of our algorithms is grammar extraction and parsing for semantic representation of natural language. We apply our algorithms to data annotated with Abstract Meaning Representations and report on the characteristics of the resulting grammars.
A neural language model trained on a text corpus can be used to induce distributed representations of words, such that similar words end up with similar representations. If the corpus is multilingual, the same model can be used to learn distributed representations of languages, such that similar languages end up with similar representations. We show that this holds even when the multilingual corpus has been translated into English, by picking up the faint signal left by the source languages. However, just as it is a thorny problem to separate semantic from syntactic similarity in word representations, it is not obvious what type of similarity is captured by language representations. We investigate correlations and causal relationships between language representations learned from translations on one hand, and genetic, geographical, and several levels of structural similarity between languages on the other. Of these, structural similarity is found to correlate most strongly with language representation similarity, whereas genetic relationships{---}a convenient benchmark used for evaluation in previous work{---}appears to be a confounding factor. Apart from implications about translation effects, we see this more generally as a case where NLP and linguistic typology can interact and benefit one another.
Nominal compounds such as red wine and nut case display a continuum of compositionality, with varying contributions from the components of the compound to its semantics. This article proposes a framework for compound compositionality prediction using distributional semantic models, evaluating to what extent they capture idiomaticity compared to human judgments. For evaluation, we introduce data sets containing human judgments in three languages: English, French, and Portuguese. The results obtained reveal a high agreement between the models and human predictions, suggesting that they are able to incorporate information about idiomaticity. We also present an in-depth evaluation of various factors that can affect prediction, such as model and corpus parameters and compositionality operations. General crosslingual analyses reveal the impact of morphological variation and corpus size in the ability of the model to predict compositionality, and of a uniform combination of the components for best results.
This article describes a neural semantic parser that maps natural language utterances onto logical forms that can be executed against a task-specific environment, such as a knowledge base or a database, to produce a response. The parser generates tree-structured logical forms with a transition-based approach, combining a generic tree-generation algorithm with domain-general grammar defined by the logical language. The generation process is modeled by structured recurrent neural networks, which provide a rich encoding of the sentential context and generation history for making predictions. To tackle mismatches between natural language and logical form tokens, various attention mechanisms are explored. Finally, we consider different training settings for the neural semantic parser, including fully supervised training where annotated logical forms are given, weakly supervised training where denotations are provided, and distant supervision where only unlabeled sentences and a knowledge base are available. Experiments across a wide range of data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of our parser.
We report our work on building linguistic resources and data-driven parsers in the grammatical relation (GR) analysis for Mandarin Chinese. Chinese, as an analytic language, encodes grammatical information in a highly configurational rather than morphological way. Accordingly, it is possible and reasonable to represent almost all grammatical relations as bilexical dependencies. In this work, we propose to represent grammatical information using general directed dependency graphs. Both only-local and rich long-distance dependencies are explicitly represented. To create high-quality annotations, we take advantage of an existing TreeBank, namely, Chinese TreeBank (CTB), which is grounded on the Government and Binding theory. We define a set of linguistic rules to explore CTB{'}s implicit phrase structural information and build deep dependency graphs. The reliability of this linguistically motivated GR extraction procedure is highlighted by manual evaluation. Based on the converted corpus, data-driven, including graph- and transition-based, models are explored for Chinese GR parsing. For graph-based parsing, a new perspective, graph merging, is proposed for building flexible dependency graphs: constructing complex graphs via constructing simple subgraphs. Two key problems are discussed in this perspective: (1) how to decompose a complex graph into simple subgraphs, and (2) how to combine subgraphs into a coherent complex graph. For transition-based parsing, we introduce a neural parser based on a list-based transition system. We also discuss several other key problems, including dynamic oracle and beam search for neural transition-based parsing. Evaluation gauges how successful GR parsing for Chinese can be by applying data-driven models. The empirical analysis suggests several directions for future study.
Sound correspondence patterns play a crucial role for linguistic reconstruction. Linguists use them to prove language relationship, to reconstruct proto-forms, and for classical phylogenetic reconstruction based on shared innovations. Cognate words that fail to conform with expected patterns can further point to various kinds of exceptions in sound change, such as analogy or assimilation of frequent words. Here I present an automatic method for the inference of sound correspondence patterns across multiple languages based on a network approach. The core idea is to represent all columns in aligned cognate sets as nodes in a network with edges representing the degree of compatibility between the nodes. The task of inferring all compatible correspondence sets can then be handled as the well-known minimum clique cover problem in graph theory, which essentially seeks to split the graph into the smallest number of cliques in which each node is represented by exactly one clique. The resulting partitions represent all correspondence patterns that can be inferred for a given data set. By excluding those patterns that occur in only a few cognate sets, the core of regularly recurring sound correspondences can be inferred. Based on this idea, the article presents a method for automatic correspondence pattern recognition, which is implemented as part of a Python library which supplements the article. To illustrate the usefulness of the method, I present how the inferred patterns can be used to predict words that have not been observed before.
We study the problem of response selection for multi-turn conversation in retrieval-based chatbots. The task involves matching a response candidate with a conversation context, the challenges for which include how to recognize important parts of the context, and how to model the relationships among utterances in the context. Existing matching methods may lose important information in contexts as we can interpret them with a unified framework in which contexts are transformed to fixed-length vectors without any interaction with responses before matching. This motivates us to propose a new matching framework that can sufficiently carry important information in contexts to matching and model relationships among utterances at the same time. The new framework, which we call a sequential matching framework (SMF), lets each utterance in a context interact with a response candidate at the first step and transforms the pair to a matching vector. The matching vectors are then accumulated following the order of the utterances in the context with a recurrent neural network (RNN) that models relationships among utterances. Context-response matching is then calculated with the hidden states of the RNN. Under SMF, we propose a sequential convolutional network and sequential attention network and conduct experiments on two public data sets to test their performance. Experiment results show that both models can significantly outperform state-of-the-art matching methods. We also show that the models are interpretable with visualizations that provide us insights on how they capture and leverage important information in contexts for matching.
The goal of our paper is to compare psycholinguistic text features with fact checking approaches to distinguish lies from true statements. We examine both methods using data from a large ongoing study on deception and deception detection covering a mixture of factual and opinionated topics that polarize public opinion. We conclude that fact checking approaches based on Wikipedia are too limited for this task, as only a few percent of sentences from our study has enough evidence to become supported or refuted. Psycholinguistic features turn out to outperform both fact checking and human baselines, but the accuracy is not high. Overall, it appears that deception detection applicable to less-than-obvious topics is a difficult task and a problem to be solved.
We present a multi-task learning model that leverages large amount of textual information from existing datasets to improve stance prediction. In particular, we utilize multiple NLP tasks under both unsupervised and supervised settings for the target stance prediction task. Our model obtains state-of-the-art performance on a public benchmark dataset, Fake News Challenge, outperforming current approaches by a wide margin.
We present our Generative Enhanced Model (GEM) that we used to create samples awarded the first prize on the FEVER 2.0 Breakers Task. GEM is the extended language model developed upon GPT-2 architecture. The addition of novel target vocabulary input to the already existing context input enabled controlled text generation. The training procedure resulted in creating a model that inherited the knowledge of pretrained GPT-2, and therefore was ready to generate natural-like English sentences in the task domain with some additional control. As a result, GEM generated malicious claims that mixed facts from various articles, so it became difficult to classify their truthfulness.
In this paper, we propose a new approach to learn multimodal multilingual embeddings for matching images and their relevant captions in two languages. We combine two existing objective functions to make images and captions close in a joint embedding space while adapting the alignment of word embeddings between existing languages in our model. We show that our approach enables better generalization, achieving state-of-the-art performance in text-to-image and image-to-text retrieval task, and caption-caption similarity task. Two multimodal multilingual datasets are used for evaluation: Multi30k with German and English captions and Microsoft-COCO with English and Japanese captions.
The recent demonstration of the power of huge language models such as GPT-2 to memorise the answers to factoid questions raises questions about the extent to which knowledge is being embedded directly within these large models. This short paper describes an architecture through which much smaller models can also answer such questions - by making use of {`}raw{'} external knowledge. The contribution of this work is that the methods presented here rely on unsupervised learning techniques, complementing the unsupervised training of the Language Model. The goal of this line of research is to be able to add knowledge explicitly, without extensive training.
We present a scalable, open-source platform that {``}distills{''} a potentially large text collection into a knowledge graph. Our platform takes documents stored in Apache Solr and scales out the Stanford CoreNLP toolkit via Apache Spark integration to extract mentions and relations that are then ingested into the Neo4j graph database. The raw knowledge graph is then enriched with facts extracted from an external knowledge graph. The complete product can be manipulated by various applications using Neo4j{'}s native Cypher query language: We present a subgraph-matching approach to align extracted relations with external facts and show that fact verification, locating textual support for asserted facts, detecting inconsistent and missing facts, and extracting distantly-supervised training data can all be performed within the same framework.
Many previous studies on relation extrac-tion have been focused on finding only one relation between two entities in a single sentence. However, we can easily find the fact that multiple entities exist in a single sentence and the entities form multiple relations. To resolve this prob-lem, we propose a relation extraction model based on a dual pointer network with a multi-head attention mechanism. The proposed model finds n-to-1 subject-object relations by using a forward de-coder called an object decoder. Then, it finds 1-to-n subject-object relations by using a backward decoder called a sub-ject decoder. In the experiments with the ACE-05 dataset and the NYT dataset, the proposed model achieved the state-of-the-art performances (F1-score of 80.5{\%} in the ACE-05 dataset, F1-score of 78.3{\%} in the NYT dataset)
Recent Deep Learning (DL) models have succeeded in achieving human-level accuracy on various natural language tasks such as question-answering, natural language inference (NLI), and textual entailment. These tasks not only require the contextual knowledge but also the reasoning abilities to be solved efficiently. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised question-answering based approach for a similar task, fact-checking. We transform the FEVER dataset into a Cloze-task by masking named entities provided in the claims. To predict the answer token, we utilize pre-trained Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT). The classifier computes label based on the correctly answered questions and a threshold. Currently, the classifier is able to classify the claims as {``}SUPPORTS{''} and {``}MANUAL{\_}REVIEW{''}. This approach achieves a label accuracy of 80.2{\%} on the development set and 80.25{\%} on the test set of the transformed dataset.
Recognizing the implicit link between a claim and a piece of evidence (i.e. warrant) is the key to improving the performance of evidence detection. In this work, we explore the effectiveness of automatically extracted warrants for evidence detection. Given a claim and candidate evidence, our proposed method extracts multiple warrants via similarity search from an existing, structured corpus of arguments. We then attentively aggregate the extracted warrants, considering the consistency between the given argument and the acquired warrants. Although a qualitative analysis on the warrants shows that the extraction method needs to be improved, our results indicate that our method can still improve the performance of evidence detection.
One of the important tasks in opinion mining is to extract aspects of the opinion target. Aspects are features or characteristics of the opinion target that are being reviewed, which can be categorised into explicit and implicit aspects. Extracting aspects from opinions is essential in order to ensure accurate information about certain attributes of an opinion target is retrieved. For instance, a professional camera receives a positive feedback in terms of its functionalities in a review, but its overly high price receives negative feedback. Most of the existing solutions focus on explicit aspects. However, sentences in reviews normally do not state the aspects explicitly. In this research, two hybrid models are proposed to identify and extract both explicit and implicit aspects, namely TDM-DC and TDM-TED. The proposed models combine topic modelling and dictionary-based approach. The models are unsupervised as they do not require any labelled dataset. The experimental results show that TDM-DC achieves F1-measure of 58.70{\%}, where it outperforms both the baseline topic model and dictionary-based approach. In comparison to other existing unsupervised techniques, the proposed models are able to achieve higher F1-measure by approximately 3{\%}. Although the supervised techniques perform slightly better, the proposed models are domain-independent, and hence more versatile.
Triggered by Internet development, a large amount of information is published in online sources. However, it is a well-known fact that publications are inundated with inaccurate data. That is why fact-checking has become a significant topic in the last 5 years. It is widely accepted that factual data verification is a challenge even for the experts. This paper presents a domain-independent fact checking system. It can solve the fact verification problem entirely or at the individual stages. The proposed model combines various advanced methods of text data analysis, such as BERT and Infersent. The theoretical and empirical study of the system features is carried out. Based on FEVER and Fact Checking Challenge test-collections, experimental results demonstrate that our model can achieve the score on a par with state-of-the-art models designed by the specificity of particular datasets.
Finding evidence is of vital importance in research as well as fact checking and an evidence detection method would be useful in speeding up this process. However, when addressing a new topic there is no training data and there are two approaches to get started. One could use large amounts of out-of-domain data to train a state-of-the-art method, or to use the small data that a person creates while working on the topic. In this paper, we address this problem in two steps. First, by simulating users who read source documents and label sentences they can use as evidence, thereby creating small amounts of training data for an interactively trained evidence detection model; and second, by comparing such an interactively trained model against a pre-trained model that has been trained on large out-of-domain data. We found that an interactively trained model not only often out-performs a state-of-the-art model but also requires significantly lower amounts of computational resources. Therefore, especially when computational resources are scarce, e.g. no GPU available, training a smaller model on the fly is preferable to training a well generalising but resource hungry out-of-domain model.
Defined as the intentional or unintentionalspread of false information (K et al., 2019)through context and/or content manipulation,fake news has become one of the most seriousproblems associated with online information(Waldrop, 2017). Consequently, it comes asno surprise that Fake News Detection hasbecome one of the major foci of variousfields of machine learning and while machinelearning models have allowed individualsand companies to automate decision-basedprocesses that were once thought to be onlydoable by humans, it is no secret that thereal-life applications of such models are notviable without the existence of an adequatetraining dataset. In this paper we describethe Veritas Annotator, a web application formanually identifying the origin of a rumour.These rumours, often referred as claims,were previously checked for validity byFact-Checking Agencies.
This paper contains our system description for the second Fact Extraction and VERification (FEVER) challenge. We propose a two-staged sentence selection strategy to account for examples in the dataset where evidence is not only conditioned on the claim, but also on previously retrieved evidence. We use a publicly available document retrieval module and have fine-tuned BERT checkpoints for sentence se- lection and as the entailment classifier. We report a FEVER score of 68.46{\%} on the blind testset.
Fever Shared 2.0 Task is a challenge meant for developing automated fact checking systems. Our approach for the Fever 2.0 is based on a previous proposal developed by Team Athene UKP TU Darmstadt. Our proposal modifies the sentence retrieval phase, using statement extraction and representation in the form of triplets (subject, object, action). Triplets are extracted from the claim and compare to triplets extracted from Wikipedia articles using semantic similarity. Our results are satisfactory but there is room for improvement.
We analyse coreference phenomena in three neural machine translation systems trained with different data settings with or without access to explicit intra- and cross-sentential anaphoric information. We compare system performance on two different genres: news and TED talks. To do this, we manually annotate (the possibly incorrect) coreference chains in the MT outputs and evaluate the coreference chain translations. We define an error typology that aims to go further than pronoun translation adequacy and includes types such as incorrect word selection or missing words. The features of coreference chains in automatic translations are also compared to those of the source texts and human translations. The analysis shows stronger potential translationese effects in machine translated outputs than in human translations.
This work presents a decoding architecture that fuses the information from a neural translation model and the context semantics enclosed in a semantic space language model based on word embeddings. The method extends the beam search decoding process and therefore can be applied to any neural machine translation framework. With this, we sidestep two drawbacks of current document-level systems: (i) we do not modify the training process so there is no increment in training time, and (ii) we do not require document-level an-notated data. We analyze the impact of the fusion system approach and its parameters on the final translation quality for English{--}Spanish. We obtain consistent and statistically significant improvements in terms of BLEU and METEOR and we observe how the fused systems are able to handle synonyms to propose more adequate translations as well as help the system to disambiguate among several translation candidates for a word.
Document-level context has received lots of attention for compensating neural machine translation (NMT) of isolated sentences. However, recent advances in document-level NMT focus on sophisticated integration of the context, explaining its improvement with only a few selected examples or targeted test sets. We extensively quantify the causes of improvements by a document-level model in general test sets, clarifying the limit of the usefulness of document-level context in NMT. We show that most of the improvements are not interpretable as utilizing the context. We also show that a minimal encoding is sufficient for the context modeling and very long context is not helpful for NMT.
A single sentence does not always convey information that is enough to translate it into other languages. Some target languages need to add or specialize words that are omitted or ambiguous in the source languages (e.g, zero pronouns in translating Japanese to English or epicene pronouns in translating English to French). To translate such ambiguous sentences, we need contexts beyond a single sentence, and have so far explored context-aware neural machine translation (NMT). However, a large amount of parallel corpora is not easily available to train accurate context-aware NMT models. In this study, we first obtain large-scale pseudo parallel corpora by back-translating monolingual data, and then investigate its impact on the translation accuracy of context-aware NMT models. We evaluated context-aware NMT models trained with small parallel corpora and the large-scale pseudo parallel corpora on English-Japanese and English-French datasets to demonstrate the large impact of the data augmentation for context-aware NMT models.
We present neural machine translation models for translating a sentence in a text by using a graph-based encoder which can consider coreference relations provided within the text explicitly. The graph-based encoder can dynamically encode the source text without attending to all tokens in the text. In experiments, our proposed models provide statistically significant improvement to the previous approach of at most 0.9 points in the BLEU score on the OpenSubtitle2018 English-to-Japanese data set. Experimental results also show that the graph-based encoder can handle a longer text well, compared with the previous approach.
In this paper, we investigate how different aspects of discourse context affect the performance of recent neural MT systems. We describe two popular datasets covering news and movie subtitles and we provide a thorough analysis of the distribution of various document-level features in their domains. Furthermore, we train a set of context-aware MT models on both datasets and propose a comparative evaluation scheme that contrasts coherent context with artificially scrambled documents and absent context, arguing that the impact of discourse-aware MT models will become visible in this way. Our results show that the models are indeed affected by the manipulation of the test data, providing a different view on document-level translation quality than absolute sentence-level scores.
Neural Module Networks, originally proposed for the task of visual question answering, are a class of neural network architectures that involve human-specified neural modules, each designed for a specific form of reasoning. In current formulations of such networks only the parameters of the neural modules and/or the order of their execution is learned. In this work, we further expand this approach and also learn the underlying internal structure of modules in terms of the ordering and combination of simple and elementary arithmetic operators. We utilize a minimum amount of prior knowledge from the human-specified neural modules in the form of different input types and arithmetic operators used in these modules. Our results show that one is indeed able to simultaneously learn both internal module structure and module sequencing without extra supervisory signals for module execution sequencing. With this approach, we report performance comparable to models using hand-designed modules. In addition, we do a analysis of sensitivity of the learned modules w.r.t. the arithmetic operations and infer the analytical expressions of the learned modules.
In this paper, we propose a new approach to learn multimodal multilingual embeddings for matching images and their relevant captions in two languages. We combine two existing objective functions to make images and captions close in a joint embedding space while adapting the alignment of word embeddings between existing languages in our model. We show that our approach enables better generalization, achieving state-of-the-art performance in text-to-image and image-to-text retrieval task, and caption-caption similarity task. Two multimodal multilingual datasets are used for evaluation: Multi30k with German and English captions and Microsoft-COCO with English and Japanese captions.
In this paper, we experiment with a recently proposed visual reasoning task dealing with quantities {--} modeling the multimodal, contextually-dependent meaning of size adjectives ({`}big{'}, {`}small{'}) {--} and explore the impact of varying the training data on the learning behavior of a state-of-art system. In previous work, models have been shown to fail in generalizing to unseen adjective-noun combinations. Here, we investigate whether, and to what extent, seeing some of these cases during training helps a model understand the rule subtending the task, i.e., that being big implies being not small, and vice versa. We show that relatively few examples are enough to understand this relationship, and that developing a specific, mutually exclusive representation of size adjectives is beneficial to the task.
Chinese characters are unique in its logographic nature, which inherently encodes world knowledge through thousands of years evolution. This paper proposes an embedding approach, namely eigencharacter (EC) space, which helps NLP application easily access the knowledge encoded in Chinese orthography. These EC representations are automatically extracted, encode both structural and radical information, and easily integrate with other computational models. We built EC representations of 5,000 Chinese characters, investigated orthography knowledge encoded in ECs, and demonstrated how these ECs identified visually similar characters with both structural and radical information.
Scene graphs represent semantic information in images, which can help image captioning system to produce more descriptive outputs versus using only the image as context. Recent captioning approaches rely on ad-hoc approaches to obtain graphs for images. However, those graphs introduce noise and it is unclear the effect of parser errors on captioning accuracy. In this work, we investigate to what extent scene graphs can help image captioning. Our results show that a state-of-the-art scene graph parser can boost performance almost as much as the ground truth graphs, showing that the bottleneck currently resides more on the captioning models than on the performance of the scene graph parser.
It is assumed that multimodal machine translation systems are better than text-only systems at translating phrases that have a direct correspondence in the image. This assumption has been challenged in experiments demonstrating that state-of-the-art multimodal systems perform equally well in the presence of randomly selected images, but, more recently, it has been shown that masking entities from the source language sentence during training can help to overcome this problem. In this paper, we conduct experiments with both visual and textual adversaries in order to understand the role of incorrect textual inputs to such systems. Our results show that when the source language sentence contains mistakes, multimodal translation systems do not leverage the additional visual signal to produce the correct translation. We also find that the degradation of translation performance caused by textual adversaries is significantly higher than by visual adversaries.
Previous research into agent communication has shown that a pre-trained guide can speed up the learning process of an imitation learning agent. The guide achieves this by providing the agent with discrete messages in an emerged language about how to solve the task. We extend this one-directional communication by a one-bit communication channel from the learner back to the guide: It is able to ask the guide for help, and we limit the guidance by penalizing the learner for these requests. During training, the agent learns to control this gate based on its current observation. We find that the amount of requested guidance decreases over time and guidance is requested in situations of high uncertainty. We investigate the agent{'}s performance in cases of open and closed gates and discuss potential motives for the observed gating behavior.
Readers{'} eye movements used as part of the training signal have been shown to improve performance in a wide range of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. Previous work uses gaze data either at the type level or at the token level and mostly from a single eye-tracking corpus. In this paper, we analyze type vs token-level integration options with eye tracking data from two corpora to inform two syntactic sequence labeling problems: binary phrase chunking and part-of-speech tagging. We show that using globally-aggregated measures that capture the central tendency or variability of gaze data is more beneficial than proposed local views which retain individual participant information. While gaze data is informative for supervised POS tagging, which complements previous findings on unsupervised POS induction, almost no improvement is obtained for binary phrase chunking, except for a single specific setup. Hence, caution is warranted when using gaze data as signal for NLP, as no single view is robust over tasks, modeling choice and gaze corpus.
How can we teach artificial agents to use human language flexibly to solve problems in real-world environments? We have an example of this in nature: human babies eventually learn to use human language to solve problems, and they are taught with an adult human-in-the-loop. Unfortunately, current machine learning methods (e.g. from deep reinforcement learning) are too data inefficient to learn language in this way. An outstanding goal is finding an algorithm with a suitable {`}language learning prior{'} that allows it to learn human language, while minimizing the number of on-policy human interactions. In this paper, we propose to learn such a prior in simulation using an approach we call, Learning to Learn to Communicate (L2C). Specifically, in L2C we train a meta-learning agent in simulation to interact with populations of pre-trained agents, each with their own distinct communication protocol. Once the meta-learning agent is able to quickly adapt to each population of agents, it can be deployed in new populations, including populations speaking human language. Our key insight is that such populations can be obtained via self-play, after pre-training agents with imitation learning on a small amount of off-policy human language data. We call this latter technique Seeded Self-Play (S2P). Our preliminary experiments show that agents trained with L2C and S2P need fewer on-policy samples to learn a compositional language in a Lewis signaling game.
We describe our exploratory system for the shallow surface realization task, which combines morphological inflection using character sequence-to-sequence models with a baseline linearizer that implements a tree-to-tree model using sequence-to-sequence models on serialized trees. Results for morphological inflection were competitive across languages. Due to time constraints, we could only submit complete results (including linearization) for English. Preliminary linearization results were decent, with a small benefit from reranking to prefer valid output trees, but inadequate control over the words in the output led to poor quality on longer sentences.
This paper presents an exploratory study that aims to evaluate the usefulness of back-translation in Natural Language Generation (NLG) from semantic representations for non-English languages. Specifically, Abstract Meaning Representation and Brazilian Portuguese (BP) are chosen as semantic representation and language, respectively. Two methods (focused on Statistical and Neural Machine Translation) are evaluated on two datasets (one automatically generated and another one human-generated) to compare the performance in a real context. Also, several cuts according to quality measures are performed to evaluate the importance (or not) of the data quality in NLG. Results show that there are still many improvements to be made but this is a promising approach.
This paper discusses a cross-document coreference annotation schema that was developed to further automatic extraction of timelines in the clinical domain. Lexical senses and coreference choices are determined largely by context, but cross-document work requires reasoning across contexts that are not necessarily coherent. We found that an annotation approach that relies less on context-guided annotator intuitions and more on schematic rules was most effective in creating meaningful and consistent cross-document relations.
Pre-trained word embeddings are becoming increasingly popular for natural language processing tasks. This includes medical applications, where embeddings are trained for clinical concepts using specific medical data. Recent work continues to improve on these embeddings. However, no one has yet sought to determine whether these embeddings work as well for one field of medicine as they do in others. In this work, we use intrinsic methods to evaluate embeddings from the various fields of medicine as defined by their ICD-9 systems. We find significant differences between fields, and motivate future work to investigate whether extrinsic tasks will follow a similar pattern.
Deep learning models have achieved state-of-the-art performances on many relation extraction datasets. A common element in these deep learning models involves the pooling mechanisms where a sequence of hidden vectors is aggregated to generate a single representation vector, serving as the features to perform prediction for RE. Unfortunately, the models in the literature tend to employ different strategies to perform pooling for RE, leading to the challenge to determine the best pooling mechanism for this problem, especially in the biomedical domain. In order to answer this question, in this work, we conduct a comprehensive study to evaluate the effectiveness of different pooling mechanisms for the deep learning models in biomedical RE. The experimental results suggest that dependency-based pooling is the best pooling strategy for RE in the biomedical domain, yielding the state-of-the-art performance on two benchmark datasets for this problem.
In this paper we tackle two unique challenges in biomedical relation extraction. The first challenge is that the contextual information between two entity mentions often involves sophisticated syntactic structures. We propose a novel graph convolutional networks model that incorporates dependency parsing and contextualized embedding to effectively capture comprehensive contextual information. The second challenge is that most of the benchmark data sets for this task are quite imbalanced because more than 80{\%} mention pairs are negative instances (i.e., no relations). We propose a multi-task learning framework to jointly model relation identification and classification tasks to propagate supervision signals from each other and apply a focal loss to focus training on ambiguous mention pairs. By applying these two strategies, experiments show that our model achieves state-of-the-art F-score on the 2013 drug-drug interaction extraction task.
Word embeddings, in their different shapes and iterations, have changed the natural language processing research landscape in the last years. The biomedical text processing field is no stranger to this revolution; however, scholars in the field largely trained their embeddings on scientific documents only, even when working on user-generated data. In this paper we show how training embeddings from a corpus collected from user-generated text from medical forums heavily influences the performance on downstream tasks, outperforming embeddings trained both on general purpose data or on scientific papers when applied on user-generated content.
Clinical notes are essential medical documents to record each patient{'}s symptoms. Each record is typically annotated with medical diagnostic codes, which means diagnosis and treatment. This paper focuses on predicting diagnostic codes given the descriptive present illness in electronic health records by leveraging domain knowledge. We investigate various losses in a convolutional model to utilize hierarchical category knowledge of diagnostic codes in order to allow the model to share semantics across different labels under the same category. The proposed model not only considers the external domain knowledge but also addresses the issue about data imbalance. The MIMIC3 benchmark experiments show that the proposed methods can effectively utilize category knowledge and provide informative cues to improve the performance in terms of the top-ranked diagnostic codes which is better than the prior state-of-the-art. The investigation and discussion express the potential of integrating the domain knowledge in the current machine learning based models and guiding future research directions.
The paper addresses experiments to expand ad hoc ambiguous abbreviations in medical notes on the basis of morphologically annotated texts, without using additional domain resources. We work on Polish data but the described approaches can be used for other languages too. We test two methods to select candidates for word abbreviation expansions. The first one automatically selects all words in text which might be an expansion of an abbreviation according to the language rules. The second method uses clustering of abbreviation occurrences to select representative elements which are manually annotated to determine lists of potential expansions. We then train a classifier to assign expansions to abbreviations based on three training sets: automatically obtained, consisting of manual annotation, and concatenation of the two previous ones. The results obtained for the manually annotated training data significantly outperform automatically obtained training data. Adding the automatically obtained training data to the manually annotated data improves the results, in particular for less frequent abbreviations. In this context the proposed a priori data driven selection of possible extensions turned out to be crucial.
We investigate the impact of using emotional patterns identified by the clinical practitioners and computational linguists to enhance the prediction capabilities of a mental illness detection (in our case depression and post-traumatic stress disorder) model built using a deep neural network architecture. Over the years, deep learning methods have been successfully used in natural language processing tasks, including a few in the domain of mental illness and suicide ideation detection. We illustrate the effectiveness of using multi-task learning with a multi-channel convolutional neural network as the shared representation and use additional inputs identified by researchers as indicatives in detecting mental disorders to enhance the model predictability. Given the limited amount of unstructured data available for training, we managed to obtain a task-specific AUC higher than 0.90. In comparison to methods such as multi-class classification, we identified multi-task learning with multi-channel convolution neural network and multiple-inputs to be effective in detecting mental disorders.
We present a system for automatically extracting pertinent medical information from dialogues between clinicians and patients. The system parses each dialogue and extracts entities such as medications and symptoms, using context to predict which entities are relevant. We also classify the primary diagnosis for each conversation. In addition, we extract topic information and identify relevant utterances. This serves as a baseline for a system that extracts information from dialogues and automatically generates a patient note, which can be reviewed and edited by the clinician.
Relation classification is crucial for inferring semantic relatedness between entities in a piece of text. These systems can be trained given labelled data. However, relation classification is very domain-specific and it takes a lot of effort to label data for a new domain. In this paper, we explore domain adaptation techniques for this task. While past works have focused on single source domain adaptation for bio-medical relation classification, we classify relations in an unlabeled target domain by transferring useful knowledge from one or more related source domains. Our experiments with the model have shown to improve state-of-the-art F1 score on 3 benchmark biomedical corpora for single domain and on 2 out of 3 for multi-domain scenarios. When used with contextualized embeddings, there is further boost in performance outperforming neural-network based domain adaptation baselines for both the cases.
Predicting which patients are more likely to be readmitted to a hospital within 30 days after discharge is a valuable piece of information in clinical decision-making. Building a successful readmission risk classifier based on the content of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) has proved, however, to be a challenging task. Previously explored features include mainly structured information, such as sociodemographic data, comorbidity codes and physiological variables. In this paper we assess incorporating additional clinically interpretable NLP-based features such as topic extraction and clinical sentiment analysis to predict early readmission risk in psychiatry patients.
In this work we investigate the signal contained in the language of food on social media. We experiment with a dataset of 24 million food-related tweets, and make several observations. First,thelanguageoffoodhaspredictive power. We are able to predict if states in the United States (US) are above the medianratesfortype2diabetesmellitus(T2DM), income, poverty, and education {--} outperforming previous work by 4{--}18{\%}. Second, we investigate the effect of socioeconomic factors (income, poverty, and education) on predicting state-level T2DM rates. Socioeconomic factors do improve T2DM prediction, with the greatestimprovementcomingfrompovertyinformation(6{\%}),but,importantly,thelanguage of food adds distinct information that is not captured by socioeconomics. Third, we analyze how the language of food has changed over a five-year period (2013 {--} 2017), which is indicative of the shift in eating habits in the US during that period. We find several food trends, and that the language of food is used differently by different groups such as differentgenders. Last,weprovideanonlinevisualization tool for real-time queries and semantic analysis.
Stress is a nigh-universal human experience, particularly in the online world. While stress can be a motivator, too much stress is associated with many negative health outcomes, making its identification useful across a range of domains. However, existing computational research typically only studies stress in domains such as speech, or in short genres such as Twitter. We present Dreaddit, a new text corpus of lengthy multi-domain social media data for the identification of stress. Our dataset consists of 190K posts from five different categories of Reddit communities; we additionally label 3.5K total segments taken from 3K posts using Amazon Mechanical Turk. We present preliminary supervised learning methods for identifying stress, both neural and traditional, and analyze the complexity and diversity of the data and characteristics of each category.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) represent the paramount evidence of clinical medicine. Using machines to interpret the massive amount of RCTs has the potential of aiding clinical decision-making. We propose a RCT conclusion generation task from the PubMed 200k RCT sentence classification dataset to examine the effectiveness of sequence-to-sequence models on understanding RCTs. We first build a pointer-generator baseline model for conclusion generation. Then we fine-tune the state-of-the-art GPT-2 language model, which is pre-trained with general domain data, for this new medical domain task. Both automatic and human evaluation show that our GPT-2 fine-tuned models achieve improved quality and correctness in the generated conclusions compared to the baseline pointer-generator model. Further inspection points out the limitations of this current approach and future directions to explore.
This article presents experiments with pseudonymised Swedish clinical text used as training data to de-identify real clinical text with the future aim to transfer non-sensitive training data to other hospitals. Conditional Random Fields (CFR) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) machine learning algorithms were used to train de-identification models. The two models were trained on pseudonymised data and evaluated on real data. For benchmarking, models were also trained on real data, and evaluated on real data as well as trained on pseudonymised data and evaluated on pseudonymised data. CRF showed better performance for some PHI information like Date Part, First Name and Last Name; consistent with some reports in the literature. In contrast, poor performances on Location and Health Care Unit information were noted, partially due to the constrained vocabulary in the pseudonymised training data. It is concluded that it is possible to train transferable models based on pseudonymised Swedish clinical data, but even small narrative and distributional variation could negatively impact performance.
Clinical notes provide important documentation critical to medical care, as well as billing and legal needs. Too little information degrades quality of care; too much information impedes care. Training for clinical note documentation is highly variable, depending on institutions and programs. In this work, we introduce the problem of automatic evaluation of note creation through rubric-based content grading, which has the potential for accelerating and regularizing clinical note documentation training. To this end, we describe our corpus creation methods as well as provide simple feature-based and neural network baseline systems. We further provide tagset and scaling experiments to inform readers of plausible expected performances. Our baselines show promising results with content point accuracy and kappa values at 0.86 and 0.71 on the test set.
In this paper we present a dilated LSTM with attention mechanism for document-level classification of suicide notes, last statements and depressed notes. We achieve an accuracy of 87.34{\%} compared to competitive baselines of 80.35{\%} (Logistic Model Tree) and 82.27{\%} (Bi-directional LSTM with Attention). Furthermore, we provide an analysis of both the grammatical and thematic content of suicide notes, last statements and depressed notes. We find that the use of personal pronouns, cognitive processes and references to loved ones are most important. Finally, we show through visualisations of attention weights that the Dilated LSTM with attention is able to identify the same distinguishing features across documents as the linguistic analysis.
Natural language processing techniques are being applied to increasingly diverse types of electronic health records, and can benefit from in-depth understanding of the distinguishing characteristics of medical document types. We present a method for characterizing the usage patterns of clinical concepts among different document types, in order to capture semantic differences beyond the lexical level. By training concept embeddings on clinical documents of different types and measuring the differences in their nearest neighborhood structures, we are able to measure divergences in concept usage while correcting for noise in embedding learning. Experiments on the MIMIC-III corpus demonstrate that our approach captures clinically-relevant differences in concept usage and provides an intuitive way to explore semantic characteristics of clinical document collections.
Entity recognition is a critical first step to a number of clinical NLP applications, such as entity linking and relation extraction. We present the first attempt to apply state-of-the-art entity recognition approaches on a newly released dataset, MedMentions. This dataset contains over 4000 biomedical abstracts, annotated for UMLS semantic types. In comparison to existing datasets, MedMentions contains a far greater number of entity types, and thus represents a more challenging but realistic scenario in a real-world setting. We explore a number of relevant dimensions, including the use of contextual versus non-contextual word embeddings, general versus domain-specific unsupervised pre-training, and different deep learning architectures. We contrast our results against the well-known i2b2 2010 entity recognition dataset, and propose a new method to combine general and domain-specific information. While producing a state-of-the-art result for the i2b2 2010 task (F1 = 0.90), our results on MedMentions are significantly lower (F1 = 0.63), suggesting there is still plenty of opportunity for improvement on this new data.
We present a semantically interpretable system for automated ICD coding of clinical text documents. Our contribution is an ontological attention mechanism which matches the structure of the ICD ontology, in which shared attention vectors are learned at each level of the hierarchy, and combined into label-dependent ensembles. Analysis of the attention heads shows that shared concepts are learned by the lowest common denominator node. This allows child nodes to focus on the differentiating concepts, leading to efficient learning and memory usage. Visualisation of the multi-level attention on the original text allows explanation of the code predictions according to the semantics of the ICD ontology. On the MIMIC-III dataset we achieve a 2.7{\%} absolute (11{\%} relative) improvement from 0.218 to 0.245 macro-F1 score compared to the previous state of the art across 3,912 codes. Finally, we analyse the labelling inconsistencies arising from different coding practices which limit performance on this task.
Since the introduction of context-aware token representation techniques such as Embeddings from Language Models (ELMo) and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), there has been numerous reports on improved performance on a variety of natural language tasks. Nevertheless, the degree to which the resulting context-aware representations encode information about morpho-syntactic properties of the word/token in a sentence remains unclear. In this paper, we investigate the application and impact of state-of-the-art neural token representations for automatic cue-conditional speculation and negation scope detection coupled with the independently computed morpho-syntactic information. Through this work, We establish a new state-of-the-art for the BioScope and NegPar corpus. More importantly, we provide a thorough analysis of neural representations and additional features interactions, cue-representation for conditioning, discuss model behavior on different datasets and address the annotation-induced biases in the learned representations.
New conversation topics and functionalities are constantly being added to conversational AI agents like Amazon Alexa and Apple Siri. As data collection and annotation is not scalable and is often costly, only a handful of examples for the new functionalities are available, which results in poor generalization performance. We formulate it as a Few-Shot Integration (FSI) problem where a few examples are used to introduce a new intent. In this paper, we study six feature space data augmentation methods to improve classification performance in FSI setting in combination with both supervised and unsupervised representation learning methods such as BERT. Through realistic experiments on two public conversational datasets, SNIPS, and the Facebook Dialog corpus, we show that data augmentation in feature space provides an effective way to improve intent classification performance in few-shot setting beyond traditional transfer learning approaches. In particular, we show that (a) upsampling in latent space is a competitive baseline for feature space augmentation (b) adding the difference between two examples to a new example is a simple yet effective data augmentation method.
To overcome the lack of annotated resources in less-resourced languages, recent approaches have been proposed to perform unsupervised language adaptation. In this paper, we explore three recent proposals: Adversarial Training, Sentence Encoder Alignment and Shared-Private Architecture. We highlight the differences of these approaches in terms of unlabeled data requirements and capability to overcome additional domain shift in the data. A comparative analysis in two different tasks is conducted, namely on Sentiment Classification and Natural Language Inference. We show that adversarial training methods are more suitable when the source and target language datasets contain other variations in content besides the language shift. Otherwise, sentence encoder alignment methods are very effective and can yield scores on the target language that are close to the source language scores.
At present, different deep learning models are presenting high accuracy on popular inference datasets such as SNLI, MNLI, and SciTail. However, there are different indicators that those datasets can be exploited by using some simple linguistic patterns. This fact poses difficulties to our understanding of the actual capacity of machine learning models to solve the complex task of textual inference. We propose a new set of syntactic tasks focused on contradiction detection that require specific capacities over linguistic logical forms such as: Boolean coordination, quantifiers, definite description, and counting operators. We evaluate two kinds of deep learning models that implicitly exploit language structure: recurrent models and the Transformer network BERT. We show that although BERT is clearly more efficient to generalize over most logical forms, there is space for improvement when dealing with counting operators. Since the syntactic tasks can be implemented in different languages, we show a successful case of cross-lingual transfer learning between English and Portuguese.
Word embeddings are an essential component in a wide range of natural language processing applications. However, distributional semantic models are known to struggle when only a small number of context sentences are available. Several methods have been proposed to obtain higher-quality vectors for these words, leveraging both this context information and sometimes the word forms themselves through a hybrid approach. We show that the current tasks do not suffice to evaluate models that use word-form information, as such models can easily leverage word forms in the training data that are related to word forms in the test data. We introduce 3 new tasks, allowing for a more balanced comparison between models. Furthermore, we show that hyperparameters that have largely been ignored in previous work can consistently improve the performance of both baseline and advanced models, achieving a new state of the art on 4 out of 6 tasks.
Many architectures for multi-task learning (MTL) have been proposed to take advantage of transfer among tasks, often involving complex models and training procedures. In this paper, we ask if the sentence-level representations learned in previous approaches provide significant benefit beyond that provided by simply improving word-based representations. To investigate this question, we consider three techniques that ignore sequence information: a syntactically-oblivious pooling encoder, pre-trained non-contextual word embeddings, and unigram generative regularization. Compared to a state-of-the-art MTL approach to textual inference, the simple techniques we use yield similar performance on a universe of task combinations while reducing training time and model size.
Multilingual transfer learning can benefit both high- and low-resource languages, but the source of these improvements is not well understood. Cananical Correlation Analysis (CCA) of the internal representations of a pre- trained, multilingual BERT model reveals that the model partitions representations for each language rather than using a common, shared, interlingual space. This effect is magnified at deeper layers, suggesting that the model does not progressively abstract semantic con- tent while disregarding languages. Hierarchical clustering based on the CCA similarity scores between languages reveals a tree structure that mirrors the phylogenetic trees hand- designed by linguists. The subword tokenization employed by BERT provides a stronger bias towards such structure than character- and word-level tokenizations. We release a subset of the XNLI dataset translated into an additional 14 languages at https://www.github.com/salesforce/xnli{\_}extension to assist further research into multilingual representations.
Entities, which refer to distinct objects in the real world, can be viewed as language universals and used as effective signals to generate less ambiguous semantic representations and align multiple languages. We propose a novel method, CLEW, to generate cross-lingual data that is a mix of entities and contextual words based on Wikipedia. We replace each anchor link in the source language with its corresponding entity title in the target language if it exists, or in the source language otherwise. A cross-lingual joint entity and word embedding learned from this kind of data not only can disambiguate linkable entities but can also effectively represent unlinkable entities. Because this multilingual common space directly relates the semantics of contextual words in the source language to that of entities in the target language, we leverage it for unsupervised cross-lingual entity linking. Experimental results show that CLEW significantly advances the state-of-the-art: up to 3.1{\%} absolute F-score gain for unsupervised cross-lingual entity linking. Moreover, it provides reliable alignment on both the word/entity level and the sentence level, and thus we use it to mine parallel sentences for all (302, 2) language pairs in Wikipedia.
We present a novel framework to deal with relation extraction tasks in cases where there is complete lack of supervision, either in the form of gold annotations, or relations from a knowledge base. Our approach leverages syntactic parsing and pre-trained word embeddings to extract few but precise relations, which are then used to annotate a larger corpus, in a manner identical to distant supervision. The resulting data set is employed to fine tune a pre-trained BERT model in order to perform relation extraction. Empirical evaluation on four data sets from the biomedical domain shows that our method significantly outperforms two simple baselines for unsupervised relation extraction and, even if not using any supervision at all, achieves slightly worse results than the state-of-the-art in three out of four data sets. Importantly, we show that it is possible to successfully fine tune a large pretrained language model with noisy data, as opposed to previous works that rely on gold data for fine tuning.
The performance of deep neural models can deteriorate substantially when there is a domain shift between training and test data. For example, the pre-trained BERT model can be easily fine-tuned with just one additional output layer to create a state-of-the-art model for a wide range of tasks. However, the fine-tuned BERT model suffers considerably at zero-shot when applied to a different domain. In this paper, we present a novel two-step domain adaptation framework based on curriculum learning and domain-discriminative data selection. The domain adaptation is conducted in a mostly unsupervised manner using a small target domain validation set for hyper-parameter tuning. We tested the framework on four large public datasets with different domain similarities and task types. Our framework outperforms a popular discrepancy-based domain adaptation method on most transfer tasks while consuming only a fraction of the training budget.
Active learning (AL) for machine translation (MT) has been well-studied for the phrase-based MT paradigm. Several AL algorithms for data sampling have been proposed over the years. However, given the rapid advancement in neural methods, these algorithms have not been thoroughly investigated in the context of neural MT (NMT). In this work, we address this missing aspect by conducting a systematic comparison of different AL methods in a simulated AL framework. Our experimental setup to compare different AL methods uses: i) State-of-the-art NMT architecture to achieve realistic results; and ii) the same dataset (WMT{'}13 English-Spanish) to have fair comparison across different methods. We then demonstrate how recent advancements in unsupervised pre-training and paraphrastic embedding can be used to improve existing AL methods. Finally, we propose a neural extension for an AL sampling method used in the context of phrase-based MT - Round Trip Translation Likelihood (RTTL). RTTL uses a bidirectional translation model to estimate the loss of information during translation and outperforms previous methods.
Semantic parsers are used to convert user{'}s natural language commands to executable logical form in intelligent personal agents. Labeled datasets required to train such parsers are expensive to collect, and are never comprehensive. As a result, for effective post-deployment domain adaptation and personalization, semantic parsers are continuously retrained to learn new user vocabulary and paraphrase variety. However, state-of-the art attention based neural parsers are slow to retrain which inhibits real time domain adaptation. Secondly, these parsers do not leverage numerous paraphrases already present in the training dataset. Designing parsers which can simultaneously maintain high accuracy and fast retraining time is challenging. In this paper, we present novel paraphrase attention based sequence-to-sequence/tree parsers which support fast near real time retraining. In addition, our parsers often boost accuracy by jointly modeling the semantic dependencies of paraphrases. We evaluate our model on benchmark datasets to demonstrate upto 9X speedup in retraining time compared to existing parsers, as well as achieving state-of-the-art accuracy.
Historical text normalization often relies on small training datasets. Recent work has shown that multi-task learning can lead to significant improvements by exploiting synergies with related datasets, but there has been no systematic study of different multi-task learning architectures. This paper evaluates 63 multi-task learning configurations for sequence-to-sequence-based historical text normalization across ten datasets from eight languages, using autoencoding, grapheme-to-phoneme mapping, and lemmatization as auxiliary tasks. We observe consistent, significant improvements across languages when training data for the target task is limited, but minimal or no improvements when training data is abundant. We also show that zero-shot learning outperforms the simple, but relatively strong, identity baseline.
Recent research on cross-lingual transfer show state-of-the-art results on benchmark datasets using pre-trained language representation models (PLRM) like BERT. These results are achieved with the traditional training approaches, such as Zero-shot with no data, Translate-train or Translate-test with machine translated data. In this work, we propose an approach of {``}Multilingual Co-training{''} (MCT) where we augment the expert annotated dataset in the source language (English) with the corresponding machine translations in the target languages (e.g. Arabic, Spanish) and fine-tune the PLRM jointly. We observe that the proposed approach provides consistent gains in the performance of BERT for multiple benchmark datasets (e.g. 1.0{\%} gain on MLDocs, and 1.2{\%} gain on XNLI over translate-train with BERT), while requiring a single model for multiple languages. We further consider a FAQ dataset where the available English test dataset is translated by experts into Arabic and Spanish. On such a dataset, we observe an average gain of 4.9{\%} over all other cross-lingual transfer protocols with BERT. We further observe that domain-specific joint pre-training of the PLRM using HR policy documents in English along with the machine translations in the target languages, followed by the joint finetuning, provides a further improvement of 2.8{\%} in average accuracy.
Over the past year, the emergence of transfer learning with large-scale language models (LM) has led to dramatic performance improvements across a broad range of natural language understanding tasks. However, the size and memory footprint of these large LMs often makes them difficult to deploy in many scenarios (e.g. on mobile phones). Recent research points to knowledge distillation as a potential solution, showing that when training data for a given task is abundant, it is possible to distill a large (teacher) LM into a small task-specific (student) network with minimal loss of performance. However, when such data is scarce, there remains a significant performance gap between large pretrained LMs and smaller task-specific models, even when training via distillation. In this paper, we bridge this gap with a novel training approach, called generation-distillation, that leverages large finetuned LMs in two ways: (1) to generate new (unlabeled) training examples, and (2) to distill their knowledge into a small network using these examples. Across three low-resource text classification datsets, we achieve comparable performance to BERT while using 300 times fewer parameters, and we outperform prior approaches to distillation for text classification while using 3 times fewer parameters.
Statistical natural language inference (NLI) models are susceptible to learning dataset bias: superficial cues that happen to associate with the label on a particular dataset, but are not useful in general, e.g., negation words indicate contradiction. As exposed by several recent challenge datasets, these models perform poorly when such association is absent, e.g., predicting that {``}I love dogs.{''} contradicts {``}I don{'}t love cats.{''}. Our goal is to design learning algorithms that guard against known dataset bias. We formalize the concept of dataset bias under the framework of distribution shift and present a simple debiasing algorithm based on residual fitting, which we call DRiFt. We first learn a biased model that only uses features that are known to relate to dataset bias. Then, we train a debiased model that fits to the residual of the biased model, focusing on examples that cannot be predicted well by biased features only. We use DRiFt to train three high-performing NLI models on two benchmark datasets, SNLI and MNLI. Our debiased models achieve significant gains over baseline models on two challenge test sets, while maintaining reasonable performance on the original test sets.
Traditional text classifiers are limited to predicting over a fixed set of labels. However, in many real-world applications the label set is frequently changing. For example, in intent classification, new intents may be added over time while others are removed. We propose to address the problem of dynamic text classification by replacing the traditional, fixed-size output layer with a learned, semantically meaningful metric space. Here the distances between textual inputs are optimized to perform nearest-neighbor classification across overlapping label sets. Changing the label set does not involve removing parameters, but rather simply adding or removing support points in the metric space. Then the learned metric can be fine-tuned with only a few additional training examples. We demonstrate that this simple strategy is robust to changes in the label space. Furthermore, our results show that learning a non-Euclidean metric can improve performance in the low data regime, suggesting that further work on metric spaces may benefit low-resource research.
The Lottery Ticket Hypothesis suggests large, over-parameterized neural networks consist of small, sparse subnetworks that can be trained in isolation to reach a similar (or better) test accuracy. However, the initialization and generalizability of the obtained sparse subnetworks have been recently called into question. Our work focuses on evaluating the initialization of sparse subnetworks under distributional shifts. Specifically, we investigate the extent to which a sparse subnetwork obtained in a source domain can be re-trained in isolation in a dissimilar, target domain. In addition, we examine the effects of different initialization strategies at transfer-time. Our experiments show that sparse subnetworks obtained through lottery ticket training do not simply overfit to particular domains, but rather reflect an inductive bias of deep neural networks that can be exploited in multiple domains.
Cross-lingual dependency parsing involves transferring syntactic knowledge from one language to another. It is a crucial component for inducing dependency parsers in low-resource scenarios where no training data for a language exists. Using Faroese as the target language, we compare two approaches using annotation projection: first, projecting from multiple monolingual source models; second, projecting from a single polyglot model which is trained on the combination of all source languages. Furthermore, we reproduce multi-source projection (Tyers et al., 2018), in which dependency trees of multiple sources are combined. Finally, we apply multi-treebank modelling to the projected treebanks, in addition to or alternatively to polyglot modelling on the source side. We find that polyglot training on the source languages produces an overall trend of better results on the target language but the single best result for the target language is obtained by projecting from monolingual source parsing models and then training multi-treebank POS tagging and parsing models on the target side.
Short Answer Grading (SAG) is a task of scoring students{'} answers in examinations. Most existing SAG systems predict scores based only on the answers, including the model used as base line in this paper, which gives the-state-of-the-art performance. But they ignore important evaluation criteria such as rubrics, which play a crucial role for evaluating answers in real-world situations. In this paper, we present a method to inject information from rubrics into SAG systems. We implement our approach on top of word-level attention mechanism to introduce the rubric information, in order to locate information in each answer that are highly related to the score. Our experimental results demonstrate that injecting rubric information effectively contributes to the performance improvement and that our proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art SAG model on the widely used ASAP-SAS dataset under low-resource settings.
Supervised learning models are typically trained on a single dataset and the performance of these models rely heavily on the size of the dataset i.e., the amount of data available with ground truth. Learning algorithms try to generalize solely based on the data that it is presented with during the training. In this work, we propose an inductive transfer learning method that can augment learning models by infusing similar instances from different learning tasks in Natural Language Processing (NLP) domain. We propose to use instance representations from a source dataset, without inheriting anything else from the source learning model. Representations of the instances of source and target datasets are learned, retrieval of relevant source instances is performed using soft-attention mechanism and locality sensitive hashing and then augmented into the model during training on the target dataset. Therefore, while learning from a training data, we also simultaneously exploit and infuse relevant local instance-level information from an external data. Using this approach we have shown significant improvements over the baseline for three major news classification datasets. Experimental evaluations also show that the proposed approach reduces dependency on labeled data by a significant margin for comparable performance. With our proposed cross dataset learning procedure we show that one can achieve competitive/better performance than learning from a single dataset.
Grapheme-to-phoneme conversion (g2p) is the task of predicting the pronunciation of words from their orthographic representation. His- torically, g2p systems were transition- or rule- based, making generalization beyond a mono- lingual (high resource) domain impractical. Recently, neural architectures have enabled multilingual systems to generalize widely; however, all systems to date have been trained only on spelling-pronunciation pairs. We hy- pothesize that the sequences of IPA characters used to represent pronunciation do not capture its full nuance, especially when cleaned to fa- cilitate machine learning. We leverage audio data as an auxiliary modality in a multi-task training process to learn a more optimal inter- mediate representation of source graphemes; this is the first multimodal model proposed for multilingual g2p. Our approach is highly ef- fective: on our in-domain test set, our mul- timodal model reduces phoneme error rate to 2.46{\%}, a more than 65{\%} decrease compared to our implementation of a unimodal spelling- pronunciation model{---}which itself achieves state-of-the-art results on the Wiktionary test set. The advantages of the multimodal model generalize to wholly unseen languages, reduc- ing phoneme error rate on our out-of-domain test set to 6.39{\%} from the unimodal 8.21{\%}, a more than 20{\%} relative decrease. Further- more, our training and test sets are composed primarily of low-resource languages, demon- strating that our multimodal approach remains useful when training data are constrained.
Knowledge distillation can effectively transfer knowledge from BERT, a deep language representation model, to traditional, shallow word embedding-based neural networks, helping them approach or exceed the quality of other heavyweight language representation models. As shown in previous work, critical to this distillation procedure is the construction of an unlabeled transfer dataset, which enables effective knowledge transfer. To create transfer set examples, we propose to sample from pretrained language models fine-tuned on task-specific text. Unlike previous techniques, this directly captures the purpose of the transfer set. We hypothesize that this principled, general approach outperforms rule-based techniques. On four datasets in sentiment classification, sentence similarity, and linguistic acceptability, we show that our approach improves upon previous methods. We outperform OpenAI GPT, a deep pretrained transformer, on three of the datasets, while using a single-layer bidirectional LSTM that runs at least ten times faster.
Recently, neural network models which automatically infer syntactic structure from raw text have started to achieve promising results. However, earlier work on unsupervised parsing shows large performance differences between non-neural models trained on corpora in different languages, even for comparable amounts of data. With that in mind, we train instances of the PRPN architecture (Shen et al., 2018){---}one of these unsupervised neural network parsers{---}for Arabic, Chinese, English, and German. We find that (i) the model strongly outperforms trivial baselines and, thus, acquires at least some parsing ability for all languages; (ii) good hyperparameter values seem to be universal; (iii) how the model benefits from larger training set sizes depends on the corpus, with the model achieving the largest performance gains when increasing the number of sentences from 2,500 to 12,500 for English. In addition, we show that, by sharing parameters between the related languages German and English, we can improve the model{'}s unsupervised parsing F1 score by up to 4{\%} in the low-resource setting.
Argument component extraction is a challenging and complex high-level semantic extraction task. As such, it is both expensive to annotate (meaning training data is limited and low-resource by nature), and hard for current-generation deep learning methods to model. In this paper, we reevaluate the performance of state-of-the-art approaches in both single- and multi-task learning settings using combinations of character-level, GloVe, ELMo, and BERT encodings using standard BiLSTM-CRF encoders. We use evaluation metrics that are more consistent with evaluation practice in named entity recognition to understand how well current baselines address this challenge and compare their performance to lower-level semantic tasks such as CoNLL named entity recognition. We find that performance utilizing various pre-trained representations and training methodologies often leaves a lot to be desired as it currently stands, and suggest future pathways for improvement.
Existing named entity recognition (NER) systems rely on large amounts of human-labeled data for supervision. However, obtaining large-scale annotated data is challenging particularly in specific domains like health-care, e-commerce and so on. Given the availability of domain specific knowledge resources, (e.g., ontologies, dictionaries), distant supervision is a solution to generate automatically labeled training data to reduce human effort. The outcome of distant supervision for NER, however, is often noisy. False positive and false negative instances are the main issues that reduce performance on this kind of auto-generated data. In this paper, we explore distant supervision in a supervised setup. We adopt a technique of partial annotation to address false negative cases and implement a reinforcement learning strategy with a neural network policy to identify false positive instances. Our results establish a new state-of-the-art on four benchmark datasets taken from different domains and different languages. We then go on to show that our model reduces the amount of manually annotated data required to perform NER in a new domain.
In this paper, a dialogue system for Hospital domain in Telugu, which is a resource-poor Dravidian language, has been built. It handles various hospital and doctor related queries. The main aim of this paper is to present an approach for modelling a dialogue system in a resource-poor language by combining linguistic and domain knowledge. Focusing on the question answering aspect of the dialogue system, we identified Question Classification and Query Processing as the two most important parts of the dialogue system. Our method combines deep learning techniques for question classification and computational rule-based analysis for query processing. Human evaluation of the system has been performed as there is no automated evaluation tool for dialogue systems in Telugu. Our system achieves a high overall rating along with a significantly accurate context-capturing method as shown in the results.
Cross-lingual entity linking (XEL) grounds named entities in a source language to an English Knowledge Base (KB), such as Wikipedia. XEL is challenging for most languages because of limited availability of requisite resources. However, many works on XEL have been on simulated settings that actually use significant resources (e.g. source language Wikipedia, bilingual entity maps, multilingual embeddings) that are not available in truly low-resource languages. In this work, we first examine the effect of these resource assumptions and quantify how much the availability of these resource affects overall quality of existing XEL systems. We next propose three improvements to both entity candidate generation and disambiguation that make better use of the limited resources we do have in resource-scarce scenarios. With experiments on four extremely low-resource languages, we show that our model results in gains of 6-20{\%} end-to-end linking accuracy.
Multi-task learning and self-training are two common ways to improve a machine learning model{'}s performance in settings with limited training data. Drawing heavily on ideas from those two approaches, we suggest transductive auxiliary task self-training: training a multi-task model on (i) a combination of main and auxiliary task training data, and (ii) test instances with auxiliary task labels which a single-task version of the model has previously generated. We perform extensive experiments on 86 combinations of languages and tasks. Our results are that, on average, transductive auxiliary task self-training improves absolute accuracy by up to 9.56{\%} over the pure multi-task model for dependency relation tagging and by up to 13.03{\%} for semantic tagging.
We propose a weakly supervised neural model for Ad-hoc Cross-lingual Information Retrieval (CLIR) from low-resource languages. Low resource languages often lack relevance annotations for CLIR, and when available the training data usually has limited coverage for possible queries. In this paper, we design a model which does not require relevance annotations, instead it is trained on samples extracted from translation corpora as weak supervision. This model relies on an attention mechanism to learn spans in the foreign sentence that are relevant to the query. We report experiments on two low resource languages: Swahili and Tagalog, trained on less that 100k parallel sentences each. The proposed model achieves 19 MAP points improvement compared to using CNNs for feature extraction, 12 points improvement from machine translation-based CLIR, and up to 6 points improvement compared to probabilistic CLIR models.
Although the vast majority of knowledge bases (KBs) are heavily biased towards English, Wikipedias do cover very different topics in different languages. Exploiting this, we introduce a new multilingual dataset (X-WikiRE), framing relation extraction as a multilingual machine reading problem. We show that by leveraging this resource it is possible to robustly transfer models cross-lingually and that multilingual support significantly improves (zero-shot) relation extraction, enabling the population of low-resourced KBs from their well-populated counterparts.
In this paper we address a challenging cross-lingual name retrieval task. Given an English named entity query, we aim to find all name mentions in documents in low-resource languages. We present a novel method which relies on zero annotation or resources from the target language. By leveraging freely available, cross-lingual resources and a small amount of training data from another language, we are able to perform name retrieval on a new language without any additional training data. Our method proceeds in a multi-step process: first, we pre-train a language-independent orthographic encoder using Wikipedia inter-lingual links from dozens of languages. Next, we gather user expectations about important entities in an English comparable document and compare those expected entities with actual spans of the target language text in order to perform name finding. Our method shows 11.6{\%} absolute F-score improvement over state-of-the-art methods.
Pretrained deep contextual representations have advanced the state-of-the-art on various commonsense NLP tasks, but we lack a concrete understanding of the capability of these models. Thus, we investigate and challenge several aspects of BERT{'}s commonsense representation abilities. First, we probe BERT{'}s ability to classify various object attributes, demonstrating that BERT shows a strong ability in encoding various commonsense features in its embedding space, but is still deficient in many areas. Next, we show that, by augmenting BERT{'}s pretraining data with additional data related to the deficient attributes, we are able to improve performance on a downstream commonsense reasoning task while using a minimal amount of data. Finally, we develop a method of fine-tuning knowledge graphs embeddings alongside BERT and show the continued importance of explicit knowledge graphs.
This paper proposes a hybrid neural network(HNN) model for commonsense reasoning. An HNN consists of two component models, a masked language model and a semantic similarity model, which share a BERTbased contextual encoder but use different model-specific input and output layers. HNN obtains new state-of-the-art results on three classic commonsense reasoning tasks, pushing the WNLI benchmark to 89{\%}, the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) benchmark to 75.1{\%}, and the PDP60 benchmark to 90.0{\%}. An ablation study shows that language models and semantic similarity models are complementary approaches to commonsense reasoning, and HNN effectively combines the strengths of both. The code and pre-trained models will be publicly available at https: //github.com/namisan/mt-dnn.
Non-extractive commonsense QA remains a challenging AI task, as it requires systems to reason about, synthesize, and gather disparate pieces of information, in order to generate responses to queries. Recent approaches on such tasks show increased performance, only when models are either pre-trained with additional information or when domain-specific heuristics are used, without any special consideration regarding the knowledge resource type. In this paper, we perform a survey of recent commonsense QA methods and we provide a systematic analysis of popular knowledge resources and knowledge-integration methods, across benchmarks from multiple commonsense datasets. Our results and analysis show that attention-based injection seems to be a preferable choice for knowledge integration and that the degree of domain overlap, between knowledge bases and datasets, plays a crucial role in determining model success.
Pretrained language models, such as BERT and RoBERTa, have shown large improvements in the commonsense reasoning benchmark COPA. However, recent work found that many improvements in benchmarks of natural language understanding are not due to models learning the task, but due to their increasing ability to exploit superficial cues, such as tokens that occur more often in the correct answer than the wrong one. Are BERT{'}s and RoBERTa{'}s good performance on COPA also caused by this? We find superficial cues in COPA, as well as evidence that BERT exploits these cues.To remedy this problem, we introduce Balanced COPA, an extension of COPA that does not suffer from easy-to-exploit single token cues. We analyze BERT{'}s and RoBERTa{'}s performance on original and Balanced COPA, finding that BERT relies on superficial cues when they are present, but still achieves comparable performance once they are made ineffective, suggesting that BERT learns the task to a certain degree when forced to. In contrast, RoBERTa does not appear to rely on superficial cues.
We consider the problem of extracting from text commonsense knowledge pertaining to human senses such as sound and smell. First, we consider the problem of recognizing mentions of human senses in text. Our contribution is a method for acquiring labeled data. Experiments show the effectiveness of our proposed data labeling approach when used with standard machine learning models on the task of sense recognition in text. Second, we propose to extract novel, common sense relationships pertaining to sense perception concepts. Our contribution is a process for generating labeled data by leveraging large corpora and crowdsourcing questionnaires.
Complex questions often require combining multiple facts to correctly answer, particularly when generating detailed explanations for why those answers are correct. Combining multiple facts to answer questions is often modeled as a {``}multi-hop{''} graph traversal problem, where a given solver must find a series of interconnected facts in a knowledge graph that, taken together, answer the question and explain the reasoning behind that answer. Multi-hop inference currently suffers from semantic drift, or the tendency for chains of reasoning to {``}drift{''}{'} to unrelated topics, and this semantic drift greatly limits the number of facts that can be combined in both free text or knowledge base inference. In this work we present our effort to mitigate semantic drift by extracting large high-confidence multi-hop inference patterns, generated by abstracting large-scale explanatory structure from a corpus of detailed explanations. We represent these inference patterns as sets of generalized constraints over sentences represented as rows in a knowledge base of semi-structured tables. We present a prototype tool for identifying common inference patterns from corpora of semi-structured explanations, and use it to successfully extract 67 inference patterns from a {``}matter{''} subset of standardized elementary science exam questions that span scientific and world knowledge.
Natural language communication between machines and humans are still constrained. The article addresses a gap in natural language understanding about actions, specifically that of understanding commands. We propose a new method for commonsense inference (grounding) of high-level natural language commands into specific action commands for further execution by a robotic system. The method allows to build a knowledge base that consists of a large set of commonsense inferences. The preliminary results have been presented.
Typical event sequences are an important class of commonsense knowledge. Formalizing the task as the generation of a next event conditioned on a current event, previous work in event prediction employs sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models. However, what can happen after a given event is usually diverse, a fact that can hardly be captured by deterministic models. In this paper, we propose to incorporate a conditional variational autoencoder (CVAE) into seq2seq for its ability to represent diverse next events as a probabilistic distribution. We further extend the CVAE-based seq2seq with a reconstruction mechanism to prevent the model from concentrating on highly typical events. To facilitate fair and systematic evaluation of the diversity-aware models, we also extend existing evaluation datasets by tying each current event to multiple next events. Experiments show that the CVAE-based models drastically outperform deterministic models in terms of precision and that the reconstruction mechanism improves the recall of CVAE-based models without sacrificing precision.
Modeling semantic plausibility requires commonsense knowledge about the world and has been used as a testbed for exploring various knowledge representations. Previous work has focused specifically on modeling physical plausibility and shown that distributional methods fail when tested in a supervised setting. At the same time, distributional models, namely large pretrained language models, have led to improved results for many natural language understanding tasks. In this work, we show that these pretrained language models are in fact effective at modeling physical plausibility in the supervised setting. We therefore present the more difficult problem of learning to model physical plausibility directly from text. We create a training set by extracting attested events from a large corpus, and we provide a baseline for training on these attested events in a self-supervised manner and testing on a physical plausibility task. We believe results could be further improved by injecting explicit commonsense knowledge into a distributional model.
Understanding common sense is important for effective natural language reasoning. One type of common sense is how two objects compare on physical properties such as size and weight: e.g., {`}is a house bigger than a person?{'}. We probe whether pre-trained representations capture comparisons and find they, in fact, have higher accuracy than previous approaches. They also generalize to comparisons involving objects not seen during training. We investigate \textit{how} such comparisons are made: models learn a consistent ordering over all the objects in the comparisons. Probing models have significantly higher accuracy than those baseline models which use dataset artifacts: e.g., memorizing some words are larger than any other word.
Crowdsourcing is frequently employed to quickly and inexpensively obtain valuable linguistic annotations but is rarely used for parsing, likely due to the perceived difficulty of the task and the limited training of the available workers. This paper presents what is, to the best of our knowledge, the first published use of Mechanical Turk (or similar platform) to crowdsource parse trees. We pay Turkers to construct unlabeled dependency trees for 500 English sentences using an interactive graphical dependency tree editor, collecting 10 annotations per sentence. Despite not requiring any training, several of the more prolific workers meet or exceed 90{\%} attachment agreement with the Penn Treebank (PTB) portion of our data, and, furthermore, for 72{\%} of these PTB sentences, at least one Turker produces a perfect parse. Thus, we find that, supported with a simple graphical interface, people with presumably no prior experience can achieve surprisingly high degrees of accuracy on this task. To facilitate research into aggregation techniques for complex crowdsourced annotations, we publicly release our annotated corpus.
This paper presents research on word familiarity rate estimation using the {`}Word List by Semantic Principles{'}. We collected rating information on 96,557 words in the {`}Word List by Semantic Principles{'} via Yahoo! crowdsourcing. We asked 3,392 subject participants to use their introspection to rate the familiarity of words based on the five perspectives of {`}KNOW{'}, {`}WRITE{'}, {`}READ{'}, {`}SPEAK{'}, and {`}LISTEN{'}, and each word was rated by at least 16 subject participants. We used Bayesian linear mixed models to estimate the word familiarity rates. We also explored the ratings with the semantic labels used in the {`}Word List by Semantic Principles{'}.
Detecting event mentions is the first step in event extraction from text and annotating them is a notoriously difficult task. Evaluating annotator consistency is crucial when building datasets for mention detection. When event mentions are allowed to cover many tokens, annotators may disagree on their span, which means that overlapping annotations may then refer to the same event or to different events. This paper explores different fuzzy-matching functions which aim to resolve this ambiguity. The functions extract the sets of syntactic heads present in the annotations, use the Dice coefficient to measure the similarity between sets and return a judgment based on a given threshold. The functions are tested against the judgment of a human evaluator and a comparison is made between sets of tokens and sets of syntactic heads. The best-performing function is a head-based function that is found to agree with the human evaluator in 89{\%} of cases.
The target outputs of many NLP tasks are word sequences. To collect the data for training and evaluating models, the crowd is a cheaper and easier to access than the oracle. To ensure the quality of the crowdsourced data, people can assign multiple workers to one question and then aggregate the multiple answers with diverse quality into a golden one. How to aggregate multiple crowdsourced word sequences with diverse quality is a curious and challenging problem. People need a dataset for addressing this problem. We thus create a dataset (CrowdWSA2019) which contains the translated sentences generated from multiple workers. We provide three approaches as the baselines on the task of extractive word sequence aggregation. Specially, one of them is an original one we propose which models the reliability of workers. We also discuss some issues on ground truth creation of word sequences which can be addressed based on this dataset.
Recent advancements in machine reading and listening comprehension involve the annotation of long texts. Such tasks are typically time consuming, making crowd-annotations an attractive solution, yet their complexity often makes such a solution unfeasible. In particular, a major concern is that crowd annotators may be tempted to skim through long texts, and answer questions without reading thoroughly. We present a case study of adapting this type of task to the crowd. The task is to identify claims in a several minute long debate speech. We show that sentence-by-sentence annotation does not scale and that labeling only a subset of sentences is insufficient. Instead, we propose a scheme for effectively performing the full, complex task with crowd annotators, allowing the collection of large scale annotated datasets. We believe that the encountered challenges and pitfalls, as well as lessons learned, are relevant in general when collecting data for large scale natural language understanding (NLU) tasks.
We propose a method of machine-assisted annotation for the identification of tension development, annotating whether the tension is increasing, decreasing, or staying unchanged. We use a neural network based prediction model, whose predicted results are given to the annotators as initial values for the options that they are asked to choose. By presenting such initial values to the annotators, the annotation task becomes an evaluation task where the annotators inspect whether or not the predicted results are correct. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, we performed the annotation task in both in-house and crowdsourced environments. For the crowdsourced environment, we compared the annotation results with and without our method of machine-assisted annotation. We find that the results with our method showed a higher agreement to the gold standard than those without, though our method had little effect at reducing the time for annotation. Our codes for the experiment are made publicly available.
Code-switching refers to the alternation of two or more languages in a conversation or utterance and is common in multilingual communities across the world. Building code-switched speech and natural language processing systems are challenging due to the lack of annotated speech and text data. We present a speech annotation interface CoSSAT, which helps annotators transcribe code-switched speech faster, more easily and more accurately than a traditional interface, by displaying candidate words from monolingual speech recognizers. We conduct a user study on the transcription of Hindi-English code-switched speech with 10 annotators and describe quantitative and qualitative results.
Most machine reading comprehension (MRC) models separately handle encoding and matching with different network architectures. In contrast, pretrained language models with Transformer layers, such as GPT (Radford et al., 2018) and BERT (Devlin et al., 2018), have achieved competitive performance on MRC. A research question that naturally arises is: apart from the benefits of pre-training, how many performance gain comes from the unified network architecture. In this work, we evaluate and analyze unifying encoding and matching components with Transformer for the MRC task. Experimental results on SQuAD show that the unified model outperforms previous networks that separately treat encoding and matching. We also introduce a metric to inspect whether a Transformer layer tends to perform encoding or matching. The analysis results show that the unified model learns different modeling strategies compared with previous manually-designed models.
Machine reading comprehension is a task related to Question-Answering where questions are not generic in scope but are related to a particular document. Recently very large corpora (SQuAD, MS MARCO) containing triplets (document, question, answer) were made available to the scientific community to develop supervised methods based on deep neural networks with promising results. These methods need very large training corpus to be efficient, however such kind of data only exists for English and Chinese at the moment. The aim of this study is the development of such resources for other languages by proposing to generate in a semi-automatic way questions from the semantic Frame analysis of large corpora. The collect of natural questions is reduced to a validation/test set. We applied this method on the CALOR-Frame French corpus to develop the CALOR-QUEST resource presented in this paper.
We focus on multiple-choice question answering (QA) tasks in subject areas such as science, where we require both broad background knowledge and the facts from the given subject-area reference corpus. In this work, we explore simple yet effective methods for exploiting two sources of external knowledge for subject-area QA. The first enriches the original subject-area reference corpus with relevant text snippets extracted from an open-domain resource (i.e., Wikipedia) that cover potentially ambiguous concepts in the question and answer options. As in other QA research, the second method simply increases the amount of training data by appending additional in-domain subject-area instances. Experiments on three challenging multiple-choice science QA tasks (i.e., ARC-Easy, ARC-Challenge, and OpenBookQA) demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods: in comparison to the previous state-of-the-art, we obtain absolute gains in accuracy of up to 8.1{\%}, 13.0{\%}, and 12.8{\%}, respectively. While we observe consistent gains when we introduce knowledge from Wikipedia, we find that employing additional QA training instances is not uniformly helpful: performance degrades when the added instances exhibit a higher level of difficulty than the original training data. As one of the first studies on exploiting unstructured external knowledge for subject-area QA, we hope our methods, observations, and discussion of the exposed limitations may shed light on further developments in the area.
In conversational machine comprehension, it has become one of the research hotspots integrating conversational history information through question reformulation for obtaining better answers. However, the existing question reformulation models are trained only using supervised question labels annotated by annotators without considering any feedback information from answers. In this paper, we propose a novel Answer-Supervised Question Reformulation (ASQR) model for enhancing conversational machine comprehension with reinforcement learning technology. ASQR utilizes a pointer-copy-based question reformulation model as an agent, takes an action to predict the next word, and observes a reward for the whole sentence state after generating the end-of-sequence token. The experimental results on QuAC dataset prove that our ASQR model is more effective in conversational machine comprehension. Moreover, pretraining is essential in reinforcement learning models, so we provide a high-quality annotated dataset for question reformulation by sampling a part of QuAC dataset.
A key challenge of multi-hop question answering (QA) in the open-domain setting is to accurately retrieve the supporting passages from a large corpus. Existing work on open-domain QA typically relies on off-the-shelf information retrieval (IR) techniques to retrieve answer passages, i.e., the passages containing the groundtruth answers. However, IR-based approaches are insufficient for multi-hop questions, as the topic of the second or further hops is not explicitly covered by the question. To resolve this issue, we introduce a new subproblem of open-domain multi-hop QA, which aims to recognize the bridge (i.e., the anchor that links to the answer passage) from the context of a set of start passages with a reading comprehension model. This model, the bridge reasoner, is trained with a weakly supervised signal and produces the candidate answer passages for the passage reader to extract the answer. On the full-wiki HotpotQA benchmark, we significantly improve the baseline method by 14 point F1. Without using any memory inefficient contextual embeddings, our result is also competitive with the state-of-the-art that applies BERT in multiple modules.
Despite the remarkable progress on Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) with the help of open-source datasets, recent studies indicate that most of the current MRC systems unfortunately suffer from weak robustness against adversarial samples. To address this issue, we attempt to take sentence syntax as the leverage in the answer predicting process which previously only takes account of phrase-level semantics. Furthermore, to better utilize the sentence syntax and improve the robustness, we propose a Syntactic Leveraging Network, which is designed to deal with adversarial samples by exploiting the syntactic elements of a question. The experiment results indicate that our method is promising for improving the generalization and robustness of MRC models against the influence of adversarial samples, with performance well-maintained.
A key component of successfully reading a passage of text is the ability to apply knowledge gained from the passage to a new situation. In order to facilitate progress on this kind of reading, we present ROPES, a challenging benchmark for reading comprehension targeting Reasoning Over Paragraph Effects in Situations. We target expository language describing causes and effects (e.g., {``}animal pollinators increase efficiency of fertilization in flowers{''}), as they have clear implications for new situations. A system is presented a background passage containing at least one of these relations, a novel situation that uses this background, and questions that require reasoning about effects of the relationships in the background passage in the context of the situation. We collect background passages from science textbooks and Wikipedia that contain such phenomena, and ask crowd workers to author situations, questions, and answers, resulting in a 14,322 question dataset. We analyze the challenges of this task and evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art reading comprehension models. The best model performs only slightly better than randomly guessing an answer of the correct type, at 61.6{\%} F1, well below the human performance of 89.0{\%}.
Conversational question generation is a novel area of NLP research which has a range of potential applications. This paper is first to presents a framework for conversational question generation that is unaware of the corresponding answers. To properly generate a question coherent to the grounding text and the current conversation history, the proposed framework first locates the focus of a question in the text passage, and then identifies the question pattern that leads the sequential generation of the words in a question. The experiments using the CoQA dataset demonstrate that the quality of generated questions greatly improves if the question foci and the question patterns are correctly identified. In addition, it was shown that the question foci, even estimated with a reasonable accuracy, could contribute to the quality improvement. These results established that our research direction may be promising, but at the same time revealed that the identification of question patterns is a challenging issue, and it has to be largely refined to achieve a better quality in the end-to-end automatic question generation.
We demonstrate the viability of knowledge transfer between two related tasks: machine reading comprehension (MRC) and query-based text summarization. Using an MRC model trained on the SQuAD1.1 dataset as a core system component, we first build an extractive query-based summarizer. For better precision, this summarizer also compresses the output of the MRC model using a novel sentence compression technique. We further leverage pre-trained machine translation systems to abstract our extracted summaries. Our models achieve state-of-the-art results on the publicly available CNN/Daily Mail and Debatepedia datasets, and can serve as simple yet powerful baselines for future systems. We also hope that these results will encourage research on transfer learning from large MRC corpora to query-based summarization.
We present a system for answering questions based on the full text of books (BookQA), which first selects book passages given a question at hand, and then uses a memory network to reason and predict an answer. To improve generalization, we pretrain our memory network using artificial questions generated from book sentences. We experiment with the recently published NarrativeQA corpus, on the subset of Who questions, which expect book characters as answers. We experimentally show that BERT-based retrieval and pretraining improve over baseline results significantly. At the same time, we confirm that NarrativeQA is a highly challenging data set, and that there is need for novel research in order to achieve high-precision BookQA results. We analyze some of the bottlenecks of the current approach, and we argue that more research is needed on text representation, retrieval of relevant passages, and reasoning, including commonsense knowledge.
Conversational machine comprehension requires deep understanding of the dialogue flow, and the prior work proposed FlowQA to implicitly model the context representations in reasoning for better understanding. This paper proposes to explicitly model the information gain through the dialogue reasoning in order to allow the model to focus on more informative cues. The proposed model achieves the state-of-the-art performance in a conversational QA dataset QuAC and sequential instruction understanding dataset SCONE, which shows the effectiveness of the proposed mechanism and demonstrate its capability of generalization to different QA models and tasks.
General Question Answering (QA) systems over texts require the multi-hop reasoning capability, i.e. the ability to reason with information collected from multiple passages to derive the answer. In this paper we conduct a systematic analysis to assess such an ability of various existing models proposed for multi-hop QA tasks. Specifically, our analysis investigates that whether providing the full reasoning chain of multiple passages, instead of just one final passage where the answer appears, could improve the performance of the existing QA models. Surprisingly, when using the additional evidence passages, the improvements of all the existing multi-hop reading approaches are rather limited, with the highest error reduction of 5.8{\%} on F1 (corresponding to 1.3{\%} improvement) from the BERT model. To better understand whether the reasoning chains indeed could help find the correct answers, we further develop a co-matching-based method that leads to 13.1{\%} error reduction with passage chains when applied to two of our base readers (including BERT). Our results demonstrate the existence of the potential improvement using explicit multi-hop reasoning and the necessity to develop models with better reasoning abilities.
To improve the accuracy of predicate-argument structure (PAS) analysis, large-scale training data and knowledge for PAS analysis are indispensable. We focus on a specific domain, specifically Japanese blogs on driving, and construct two wide-coverage datasets as a form of QA using crowdsourcing: a PAS-QA dataset and a reading comprehension QA (RC-QA) dataset. We train a machine comprehension (MC) model based on these datasets to perform PAS analysis. Our experiments show that a stepwise training method is the most effective, which pre-trains an MC model based on the RC-QA dataset to acquire domain knowledge and then fine-tunes based on the PAS-QA dataset.
Machine reading comprehension, the task of evaluating a machine{'}s ability to comprehend a passage of text, has seen a surge in popularity in recent years. There are many datasets that are targeted at reading comprehension, and many systems that perform as well as humans on some of these datasets. Despite all of this interest, there is no work that systematically defines what reading comprehension is. In this work, we justify a question answering approach to reading comprehension and describe the various kinds of questions one might use to more fully test a system{'}s comprehension of a passage, moving beyond questions that only probe local predicate-argument structures. The main pitfall of this approach is that questions can easily have surface cues or other biases that allow a model to shortcut the intended reasoning process. We discuss ways proposed in current literature to mitigate these shortcuts, and we conclude with recommendations for future dataset collection efforts.
Multi-hop question answering (QA) requires an information retrieval (IR) system that can find \textit{multiple} supporting evidence needed to answer the question, making the retrieval process very challenging. This paper introduces an IR technique that uses information of entities present in the initially retrieved evidence to learn to {`}\textit{hop}{'} to other relevant evidence. In a setting, with more than \textbf{5 million} Wikipedia paragraphs, our approach leads to significant boost in retrieval performance. The retrieved evidence also increased the performance of an existing QA model (without any training) on the benchmark by \textbf{10.59} F1.
As the complexity of question answering (QA) datasets evolve, moving away from restricted formats like span extraction and multiple-choice (MC) to free-form answer generation, it is imperative to understand how well current metrics perform in evaluating QA. This is especially important as existing metrics (BLEU, ROUGE, METEOR, and F1) are computed using n-gram similarity and have a number of well-known drawbacks. In this work, we study the suitability of existing metrics in QA. For generative QA, we show that while current metrics do well on existing datasets, converting multiple-choice datasets into free-response datasets is challenging for current metrics. We also look at span-based QA, where F1 is a reasonable metric. We show that F1 may not be suitable for all extractive QA tasks depending on the answer types. Our study suggests that while current metrics may be suitable for existing QA datasets, they limit the complexity of QA datasets that can be created. This is especially true in the context of free-form QA, where we would like our models to be able to generate more complex and abstractive answers, thus necessitating new metrics that go beyond n-gram based matching. As a step towards a better QA metric, we explore using BERTScore, a recently proposed metric for evaluating translation, for QA. We find that although it fails to provide stronger correlation with human judgements, future work focused on tailoring a BERT-based metric to QA evaluation may prove fruitful.
The field of question answering (QA) has seen rapid growth in new tasks and modeling approaches in recent years. Large scale datasets and focus on challenging linguistic phenomena have driven development in neural models, some of which have achieved parity with human performance in limited cases. However, an examination of state-of-the-art model output reveals that a gap remains in reasoning ability compared to a human, and performance tends to degrade when models are exposed to less-constrained tasks. We are interested in more clearly defining the strengths and limitations of leading models across diverse QA challenges, intending to help future researchers with identifying pathways to generalizable performance. We conduct extensive qualitative and quantitative analyses on the results of four models across four datasets and relate common errors to model capabilities. We also illustrate limitations in the datasets we examine and discuss a way forward for achieving generalizable models and datasets that broadly test QA capabilities.
Popular QA benchmarks like SQuAD have driven progress on the task of identifying answer spans within a specific passage, with models now surpassing human performance. However, retrieving relevant answers from a huge corpus of documents is still a challenging problem, and places different requirements on the model architecture. There is growing interest in developing scalable answer retrieval models trained end-to-end, bypassing the typical document retrieval step. In this paper, we introduce Retrieval Question-Answering (ReQA), a benchmark for evaluating large-scale sentence-level answer retrieval models. We establish baselines using both neural encoding models as well as classical information retrieval techniques. We release our evaluation code to encourage further work on this challenging task.
Reading comprehension is one of the crucial tasks for furthering research in natural language understanding. A lot of diverse reading comprehension datasets have recently been introduced to study various phenomena in natural language, ranging from simple paraphrase matching and entity typing to entity tracking and understanding the implications of the context. Given the availability of many such datasets, comprehensive and reliable evaluation is tedious and time-consuming for researchers working on this problem. We present an evaluation server, ORB, that reports performance on seven diverse reading comprehension datasets, encouraging and facilitating testing a single model{'}s capability in understanding a wide variety of reading phenomena. The evaluation server places no restrictions on how models are trained, so it is a suitable test bed for exploring training paradigms and representation learning for general reading facility. As more suitable datasets are released, they will be added to the evaluation server. We also collect and include synthetic augmentations for these datasets, testing how well models can handle out-of-domain questions.
In this study, we investigate the employment of the pre-trained BERT language model to tackle question generation tasks. We introduce three neural architectures built on top of BERT for question generation tasks. The first one is a straightforward BERT employment, which reveals the defects of directly using BERT for text generation. Accordingly, we propose another two models by restructuring our BERT employment into a sequential manner for taking information from previous decoded results. Our models are trained and evaluated on the recent question-answering dataset SQuAD. Experiment results show that our best model yields state-of-the-art performance which advances the BLEU 4 score of the existing best models from 16.85 to 22.17.
Question Generation (QG) is a Natural Language Processing (NLP) task that aids advances in Question Answering (QA) and conversational assistants. Existing models focus on generating a question based on a text and possibly the answer to the generated question. They need to determine the type of interrogative word to be generated while having to pay attention to the grammar and vocabulary of the question. In this work, we propose Interrogative-Word-Aware Question Generation (IWAQG), a pipelined system composed of two modules: an interrogative word classifier and a QG model. The first module predicts the interrogative word that is provided to the second module to create the question. Owing to an increased recall of deciding the interrogative words to be used for the generated questions, the proposed model achieves new state-of-the-art results on the task of QG in SQuAD, improving from 46.58 to 47.69 in BLEU-1, 17.55 to 18.53 in BLEU-4, 21.24 to 22.33 in METEOR, and from 44.53 to 46.94 in ROUGE-L.
Although advances in neural architectures for NLP problems as well as unsupervised pre-training have led to substantial improvements on question answering and natural language inference, understanding of and reasoning over long texts still poses a substantial challenge. Here, we consider the task of question answering from full narratives (e.g., books or movie scripts), or their summaries, tackling the NarrativeQA challenge (NQA; Kocisky et al. (2018)). We introduce a heuristic extractive version of the data set, which allows us to approach the more feasible problem of answer extraction (rather than generation). We train systems for passage retrieval as well as answer span prediction using this data set. We use pre-trained BERT embeddings for injecting prior knowledge into our system. We show that our setup leads to state of the art performance on summary-level QA. On QA from full narratives, our model outperforms previous models on the METEOR metric. We analyze the relative contributions of pre-trained embeddings and the extractive training paradigm, and provide a detailed error analysis.
The model submitted works as follows. When supplied a question and a passage it makes use of the BERT embedding along with the hierarchical attention model which consists of 2 parts, the co-attention and the self-attention, to locate a continuous span of the passage that is the answer to the question.
With a large number of datasets being released and new techniques being proposed, Question answering (QA) systems have witnessed great breakthroughs in reading comprehension (RC)tasks. However, most existing methods focus on improving in-domain performance, leaving open the research question of how these mod-els and techniques can generalize to out-of-domain and unseen RC tasks. To enhance the generalization ability, we propose a multi-task learning framework that learns the shared representation across different tasks. Our model is built on top of a large pre-trained language model, such as XLNet, and then fine-tuned on multiple RC datasets. Experimental results show the effectiveness of our methods, with an average Exact Match score of 56.59 and an average F1 score of 68.98, which significantly improves the BERT-Large baseline by8.39 and 7.22, respectively
The recognition of pharmacological substances, compounds and proteins is an essential preliminary work for the recognition of relations between chemicals and other biomedically relevant units. In this paper, we describe an approach to Task 1 of the PharmaCoNER Challenge, which involves the recognition of mentions of chemicals and drugs in Spanish medical texts. We train a state-of-the-art BiLSTM-CRF sequence tagger with stacked Pooled Contextualized Embeddings, word and sub-word embeddings using the open-source framework FLAIR. We present a new corpus composed of articles and papers from Spanish health science journals, termed the Spanish Health Corpus, and use it to train domain-specific embeddings which we incorporate in our model training. We achieve a result of 89.76{\%} F1-score using pre-trained embeddings and are able to improve these results to 90.52{\%} F1-score using specialized embeddings.
The aim of this paper is to present our approach (IxaMed) in the PharmacoNER 2019 task. The task consists of identifying chemical, drug, and gene/protein mentions from clinical case studies written in Spanish. The evaluation of the task is divided in two scenarios: one corresponding to the detection of named entities and one corresponding to the indexation of named entities that have been previously identified. In order to identify named entities we have made use of a Bi-LSTM with a CRF on top in combination with different types of word embeddings. We have achieved our best result (86.81 F-Score) combining pretrained word embeddings of Wikipedia and Electronic Health Records (50M words) with contextual string embeddings of Wikipedia and Electronic Health Records. On the other hand, for the indexation of the named entities we have used the Levenshtein distance obtaining a 85.34 F-Score as our best result.
In this work, we introduce a Deep Learning architecture for pharmaceutical and chemical Named Entity Recognition in Spanish clinical cases texts. We propose a hybrid model approach based on two Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (Bi-LSTM) network and Conditional Random Field (CRF) network using character, word, concept and sense embeddings to deal with the extraction of semantic, syntactic and morphological features. The approach was evaluated on the PharmaCoNER Corpus obtaining an F-measure of 85.24{\%} for subtask 1 and 49.36{\%} for subtask2. These results prove that deep learning methods with specific domain embedding representations can outperform the state-of-the-art approaches.
We present the approach of the Turku NLP group to the PharmaCoNER task on Spanish biomedical named entity recognition. We apply a CRF-based baseline approach and multilingual BERT to the task, achieving an F-score of 88{\%} on the development data and 87{\%} on the test set with BERT. Our approach reflects a straightforward application of a state-of-the-art multilingual model that is not specifically tailored to either the language nor the application domain. The source code is available at: https://github.com/chaanim/pharmaconer
This paper describes the Named Entity Recognition system of the Institute for Artificial Intelligence {``}Mihai Dr{\u{a}}g{\u{a}}nescu{''} of the Romanian Academy (RACAI for short). Our best F1 score of 0.84984 was achieved using an ensemble of two systems: a gazetteer-based baseline and a RNN-based NER system, developed specially for PharmaCoNER 2019. We will describe the individual systems and the ensemble algorithm, compare the final system to the current state of the art, as well as discuss our results with respect to the quality of the training data and its annotation strategy. The resulting NER system is language independent, provided that language-dependent resources and preprocessing tools exist, such as tokenizers and POS taggers.
To date, a large amount of biomedical content has been published in non-English texts, especially for clinical documents. Therefore, it is of considerable significance to conduct Natural Language Processing (NLP) research in non-English literature. PharmaCoNER is the first Named Entity Recognition (NER) task to recognize chemical and protein entities from Spanish biomedical texts. Since there have been abundant resources in the NLP field, how to exploit these existing resources to a new task to obtain competitive performance is a meaningful study. Inspired by the success of transfer learning with language models, we introduce the BERT benchmark to facilitate the research of PharmaCoNER task. In this paper, we evaluate two baselines based on Multilingual BERT and BioBERT on the PharmaCoNER corpus. Experimental results show that transferring the knowledge learned from source large-scale datasets to the target domain offers an effective solution for the PharmaCoNER task.
This paper presents a novel transfer multi-task learning method for Bacteria Biotope rel+ner task at BioNLP-OST 2019. To alleviate the data deficiency problem in domain-specific information extraction, we use BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) and pre-train it using mask language models and next sentence prediction on both general corpus and medical corpus like PubMed. In fine-tuning stage, we fine-tune the relation extraction layer and mention recognition layer designed by us on the top of BERT to extract mentions and relations simultaneously. The evaluation results show that our method achieves the best performance on all metrics (including slot error rate, precision and recall) in the Bacteria Biotope rel+ner subtask.
In this paper we describe a new named entity extraction system. Our work proposes a system for the identification and annotation of drug names in Spanish biomedical texts based on machine learning and deep learning models. Subsequently, a standardized code using Snomed is assigned to these drugs, for this purpose, Natural Language Processing tools and techniques have been used, and a dictionary of different sources of information has been built. The results are promising, we obtain 78{\%} in F1 score on the first sub-track and in the second task we map with Snomed correctly 72{\%} of the found entities.
In this paper, we present our participation in the Bacteria Biotope (BB) task at BioNLP-OST 2019. Our system utilizes fine-tuned language representation models and machine learning approaches based on word embedding and lexical features for entities recognition, normalization and relation extraction. It achieves the state-of-the-art performance and is among the top two systems in five of all six subtasks.
This paper presents our system details and results of participation in the RDoC Tasks of BioNLP-OST 2019. Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) construct is a multi-dimensional and broad framework to describe mental health disorders by combining knowledge from genomics to behaviour. Non-availability of RDoC labelled dataset and tedious labelling process hinders the use of RDoC framework to reach its full potential in Biomedical research community and Healthcare industry. Therefore, Task-1 aims at retrieval and ranking of PubMed abstracts relevant to a given RDoC construct and Task-2 aims at extraction of the most relevant sentence from a given PubMed abstract. We investigate (1) attention based supervised neural topic model and SVM for retrieval and ranking of PubMed abstracts and, further utilize BM25 and other relevance measures for re-ranking, (2) supervised and unsupervised sentence ranking models utilizing multi-view representations comprising of query-aware attention-based sentence representation (QAR), bag-of-words (BoW) and TF-IDF. Our best systems achieved 1st rank and scored 0.86 mAP and 0.58 macro average accuracy in Task-1 and Task-2 respectively.
Data scarcity is a long-standing and crucial challenge that hinders quick development of task-oriented dialogue systems across multiple domains: task-oriented dialogue models are expected to learn grammar, syntax, dialogue reasoning, decision making, and language generation from absurdly small amounts of task-specific data. In this paper, we demonstrate that recent progress in language modeling pre-training and transfer learning shows promise to overcome this problem. We propose a task-oriented dialogue model that operates solely on text input: it effectively bypasses explicit policy and language generation modules. Building on top of the TransferTransfo framework (Wolf et al., 2019) and generative model pre-training (Radford et al., 2019), we validate the approach on complex multi-domain task-oriented dialogues from the MultiWOZ dataset. Our automatic and human evaluations show that the proposed model is on par with a strong task-specific neural baseline. In the long run, our approach holds promise to mitigate the data scarcity problem, and to support the construction of more engaging and more eloquent task-oriented conversational agents.
In this paper, a pre-trained Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) model is applied to Transformer-based neural machine translation (NMT). In contrast to monolingual tasks, the number of unlearned model parameters in an NMT decoder is as huge as the number of learned parameters in the BERT model. To train all the models appropriately, we employ two-stage optimization, which first trains only the unlearned parameters by freezing the BERT model, and then fine-tunes all the sub-models. In our experiments, stable two-stage optimization was achieved, in contrast the BLEU scores of direct fine-tuning were extremely low. Consequently, the BLEU scores of the proposed method were better than those of the Transformer base model and the same model without pre-training. Additionally, we confirmed that NMT with the BERT encoder is more effective in low-resource settings.
Ambiguous user queries in search engines result in the retrieval of documents that often span multiple topics. One potential solution is for the search engine to generate multiple refined queries, each of which relates to a subset of the documents spanning the same topic. A preliminary step towards this goal is to generate a question that captures common concepts of multiple documents. We propose a new task of generating common question from multiple documents and present simple variant of an existing multi-source encoder-decoder framework, called the Multi-Source Question Generator (MSQG). We first train an RNN-based single encoder-decoder generator from (single document, question) pairs. At test time, given multiple documents, the Distribute step of our MSQG model predicts target word distributions for each document using the trained model. The Aggregate step aggregates these distributions to generate a common question. This simple yet effective strategy significantly outperforms several existing baseline models applied to the new task when evaluated using automated metrics and human judgments on the MS-MARCO-QA dataset.
We propose a simple and effective modeling framework for controlled generation of multiple, diverse outputs. We focus on the setting of generating the next sentence of a story given its context. As controllable dimensions, we consider several sentence attributes, including sentiment, length, predicates, frames, and automatically-induced clusters. Our empirical results demonstrate: (1) our framework is accurate in terms of generating outputs that match the target control values; (2) our model yields increased maximum metric scores compared to standard n-best list generation via beam search; (3) controlling generation with semantic frames leads to a stronger combination of diversity and quality than other control variables as measured by automatic metrics. We also conduct a human evaluation to assess the utility of providing multiple suggestions for creative writing, demonstrating promising results for the potential of controllable, diverse generation in a collaborative writing system.
Neural networks are known to be data hungry and domain sensitive, but it is nearly impossible to obtain large quantities of labeled data for every domain we are interested in. This necessitates the use of domain adaptation strategies. One common strategy encourages generalization by aligning the global distribution statistics between source and target domains, but one drawback is that the statistics of different domains or tasks are inherently divergent, and smoothing over these differences can lead to sub-optimal performance. In this paper, we propose the framework of \textit{Domain Differential Adaptation (DDA)}, where instead of smoothing over these differences we embrace them, directly modeling the difference between domains using models in a related task. We then use these learned domain differentials to adapt models for the target task accordingly. Experimental results on domain adaptation for neural machine translation demonstrate the effectiveness of this strategy, achieving consistent improvements over other alternative adaptation strategies in multiple experimental settings.
We propose a system that improves performance on single document summarization task using the CNN/DailyMail and Newsroom datasets. It follows the popular encoder-decoder paradigm, but with an extra focus on the encoder. The intuition is that the probability of correctly decoding an information significantly lies in the pattern and correctness of the encoder. Hence we introduce, encode {--}encode {--} decode. A framework that encodes the source text first with a transformer, then a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) model. We find that the transformer and seq2seq model complement themselves adequately, making for a richer encoded vector representation. We also find that paying more attention to the vocabulary of target words during abstraction improves performance. We experiment our hypothesis and framework on the task of extractive and abstractive single document summarization and evaluate using the standard CNN/DailyMail dataset and the recently released Newsroom dataset.
Asynchronous stochastic gradient descent (SGD) converges poorly for Transformer models, so synchronous SGD has become the norm for Transformer training. This is unfortunate because asynchronous SGD is faster at raw training speed since it avoids waiting for synchronization. Moreover, the Transformer model is the basis for state-of-the-art models for several tasks, including machine translation, so training speed matters. To understand why asynchronous SGD under-performs, we blur the lines between asynchronous and synchronous methods. We find that summing several asynchronous updates, rather than applying them immediately, restores convergence behavior. With this method, the Transformer attains the same BLEU score 1.36 times as fast.
Data availability is a bottleneck during early stages of development of new capabilities for intelligent artificial agents. We investigate the use of text generation techniques to augment the training data of a popular commercial artificial agent across categories of functionality, with the goal of faster development of new functionality. We explore a variety of encoder-decoder generative models for synthetic training data generation and propose using conditional variational auto-encoders. Our approach requires only direct optimization, works well with limited data and significantly outperforms the previous controlled text generation techniques. Further, the generated data are used as additional training samples in an extrinsic intent classification task, leading to improved performance by up to 5{\%} absolute f-score in low-resource cases, validating the usefulness of our approach.
Zero-shot neural machine translation (NMT) is a framework that uses source-pivot and target-pivot parallel data to train a source-target NMT system. An extension to zero-shot NMT is zero-resource NMT, which generates pseudo-parallel corpora using a zero-shot system and further trains the zero-shot system on that data. In this paper, we expand on zero-resource NMT by incorporating monolingual data in the pivot language into training; since the pivot language is usually the highest-resource language of the three, we expect monolingual pivot-language data to be most abundant. We propose methods for generating pseudo-parallel corpora using pivot-language monolingual data and for leveraging the pseudo-parallel corpora to improve the zero-shot NMT system. We evaluate these methods for a high-resource language pair (German-Russian) using English as the pivot. We show that our proposed methods yield consistent improvements over strong zero-shot and zero-resource baselines and even catch up to pivot-based models in BLEU (while not requiring the two-pass inference that pivot models require).
Exploiting large pretrained models for various NMT tasks have gained a lot of visibility recently. In this work we study how BERT pretrained models could be exploited for supervised Neural Machine Translation. We compare various ways to integrate pretrained BERT model with NMT model and study the impact of the monolingual data used for BERT training on the final translation quality. We use WMT-14 English-German, IWSLT15 English-German and IWSLT14 English-Russian datasets for these experiments. In addition to standard task test set evaluation, we perform evaluation on out-of-domain test sets and noise injected test sets, in order to assess how BERT pretrained representations affect model robustness.
Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) are known to suffer from learning uninformative latent representation of the input due to issues such as approximated posterior collapse, or entanglement of the latent space. We impose an explicit constraint on the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence term inside the VAE objective function. While the explicit constraint naturally avoids posterior collapse, we use it to further understand the significance of the KL term in controlling the information transmitted through the VAE channel. Within this framework, we explore different properties of the estimated posterior distribution, and highlight the trade-off between the amount of information encoded in a latent code during training, and the generative capacity of the model.
This paper focuses on latent representations that could effectively decompose different aspects of textual information. Using a framework of style transfer for texts, we propose several empirical methods to assess information decomposition quality. We validate these methods with several state-of-the-art textual style transfer methods. Higher quality of information decomposition corresponds to higher performance in terms of bilingual evaluation understudy (BLEU) between output and human-written reformulations.
We consider the problem of automatically generating textual paraphrases with modified attributes or properties, focusing on the setting without parallel data (Hu et al., 2017; Shen et al., 2017). This setting poses challenges for evaluation. We show that the metric of post-transfer classification accuracy is insufficient on its own, and propose additional metrics based on semantic preservation and fluency as well as a way to combine them into a single overall score. We contribute new loss functions and training strategies to address the different metrics. Semantic preservation is addressed by adding a cyclic consistency loss and a loss based on paraphrase pairs, while fluency is improved by integrating losses based on style-specific language models. We experiment with a Yelp sentiment dataset and a new literature dataset that we propose, using multiple models that extend prior work (Shen et al., 2017). We demonstrate that our metrics correlate well with human judgments, at both the sentence-level and system-level. Automatic and manual evaluation also show large improvements over the baseline method of Shen et al. (2017). We hope that our proposed metrics can speed up system development for new textual transfer tasks while also encouraging the community to address our three complementary aspects of transfer quality.
Neural models have recently shown significant progress on data-to-text generation tasks in which descriptive texts are generated conditioned on database records. In this work, we present a new Transformer-based data-to-text generation model which learns content selection and summary generation in an end-to-end fashion. We introduce two extensions to the baseline transformer model: First, we modify the latent representation of the input, which helps to significantly improve the content correctness of the output summary; Second, we include an additional learning objective that accounts for content selection modelling. In addition, we propose two data augmentation methods that succeed to further improve performance of the resulting generation models. Evaluation experiments show that our final model outperforms current state-of-the-art systems as measured by different metrics: BLEU, content selection precision and content ordering. We made publicly available the transformer extension presented in this paper.
Exposure bias refers to the train-test discrepancy that seemingly arises when an autoregressive generative model uses only ground-truth contexts at training time but generated ones at test time. We separate the contribution of the learning framework and the model to clarify the debate on consequences and review proposed counter-measures. In this light, we argue that generalization is the underlying property to address and propose unconditional generation as its fundamental benchmark. Finally, we combine latent variable modeling with a recent formulation of exploration in reinforcement learning to obtain a rigorous handling of true and generated contexts. Results on language modeling and variational sentence auto-encoding confirm the model{'}s generalization capability.
We share a French-English parallel corpus of Foursquare restaurant reviews, and define a new task to encourage research on Neural Machine Translation robustness and domain adaptation, in a real-world scenario where better-quality MT would be greatly beneficial. We discuss the challenges of such user-generated content, and train good baseline models that build upon the latest techniques for MT robustness. We also perform an extensive evaluation (automatic and human) that shows significant improvements over existing online systems. Finally, we propose task-specific metrics based on sentiment analysis or translation accuracy of domain-specific polysemous words.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT), a data-hungry technology, suffers from the lack of bilingual data in low-resource scenarios. Multitask learning (MTL) can alleviate this issue by injecting inductive biases into NMT, using auxiliary syntactic and semantic tasks. However, an effective \textit{training schedule} is required to balance the importance of tasks to get the best use of the training signal. The role of training schedule becomes even more crucial in \textit{biased-MTL} where the goal is to improve one (or a subset) of tasks the most, e.g. translation quality. Current approaches for biased-MTL are based on brittle \textit{hand-engineered} heuristics that require trial and error, and should be (re-)designed for each learning scenario. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first work on \textit{adaptively} and \textit{dynamically} changing the training schedule in biased-MTL. We propose a rigorous approach for automatically reweighing the training data of the main and auxiliary tasks throughout the training process based on their contributions to the generalisability of the main NMT task. Our experiments on translating from English to Vietnamese/Turkish/Spanish show improvements of up to +1.2 BLEU points, compared to strong baselines. Additionally, our analyses shed light on the dynamic of needs throughout the training of NMT: from syntax to semantic.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models generally perform translation using a fixed-size lexical vocabulary, which is an important bottleneck on their generalization capability and overall translation quality. The standard approach to overcome this limitation is to segment words into subword units, typically using some external tools with arbitrary heuristics, resulting in vocabulary units not optimized for the translation task. Recent studies have shown that the same approach can be extended to perform NMT directly at the level of characters, which can deliver translation accuracy on-par with subword-based models, on the other hand, this requires relatively deeper networks. In this paper, we propose a more computationally-efficient solution for character-level NMT which implements a hierarchical decoding architecture where translations are subsequently generated at the level of words and characters. We evaluate different methods for open-vocabulary NMT in the machine translation task from English into five languages with distinct morphological typology, and show that the hierarchical decoding model can reach higher translation accuracy than the subword-level NMT model using significantly fewer parameters, while demonstrating better capacity in learning longer-distance contextual and grammatical dependencies than the standard character-level NMT model.
The Insertion Transformer is well suited for long form text generation due to its parallel generation capabilities, requiring $O(\log_2 n)$ generation steps to generate $n$ tokens. However, modeling long sequences is difficult, as there is more ambiguity captured in the attention mechanism. This work proposes the Big Bidirectional Insertion Representations for Documents (Big BIRD), an insertion-based model for document-level translation tasks. We scale up the insertion-based models to long form documents. Our key contribution is introducing sentence alignment via sentence-positional embeddings between the source and target document. We show an improvement of +4.3 BLEU on the WMT{'}19 English-{\textgreater}German document-level translation task compared with the Insertion Transformer baseline.
Neural models that eliminate the softmax bottleneck by generating word embeddings (rather than multinomial distributions over a vocabulary) attain faster training with fewer learnable parameters. These models are currently trained by maximizing densities of pretrained target embeddings under von Mises-Fisher distributions parameterized by corresponding model-predicted embeddings. This work explores the utility of margin-based loss functions in optimizing such models. We present syn-margin loss, a novel margin-based loss that uses a synthetic negative sample constructed from only the predicted and target embeddings at every step. The loss is efficient to compute, and we use a geometric analysis to argue that it is more consistent and interpretable than other margin-based losses. Empirically, we find that syn-margin provides small but significant improvements over both vMF and standard margin-based losses in continuous-output neural machine translation.
Recently, the Transformer becomes a state-of-the-art architecture in the filed of neural machine translation (NMT). A key point of its high-performance is the multi-head self-attention which is supposed to allow the model to independently attend to information from different representation subspaces. However, there is no explicit mechanism to ensure that different attention heads indeed capture different features, and in practice, redundancy has occurred in multiple heads. In this paper, we argue that using the same global attention in multiple heads limits multi-head self-attention{'}s capacity for learning distinct features. In order to improve the expressiveness of multi-head self-attention, we propose a novel Mixed Multi-Head Self-Attention (MMA) which models not only global and local attention but also forward and backward attention in different attention heads. This enables the model to learn distinct representations explicitly among multiple heads. In our experiments on both WAT17 English-Japanese as well as IWSLT14 German-English translation task, we show that, without increasing the number of parameters, our models yield consistent and significant improvements (0.9 BLEU scores on average) over the strong Transformer baseline.
Recently, large language models such as GPT-2 have shown themselves to be extremely adept at text generation and have also been able to achieve high-quality results in many downstream NLP tasks such as text classification, sentiment analysis and question answering with the aid of fine-tuning. We present a useful technique for using a large language model to perform the task of paraphrasing on a variety of texts and subjects. Our approach is demonstrated to be capable of generating paraphrases not only at a sentence level but also for longer spans of text such as paragraphs without needing to break the text into smaller chunks.
Attention models have become a crucial component in neural machine translation (NMT). They are often implicitly or explicitly used to justify the model{'}s decision in generating a specific token but it has not yet been rigorously established to what extent attention is a reliable source of information in NMT. To evaluate the explanatory power of attention for NMT, we examine the possibility of yielding the same prediction but with counterfactual attention models that modify crucial aspects of the trained attention model. Using these counterfactual attention mechanisms we assess the extent to which they still preserve the generation of function and content words in the translation process. Compared to a state of the art attention model, our counterfactual attention models produce 68{\%} of function words and 21{\%} of content words in our German-English dataset. Our experiments demonstrate that attention models by themselves cannot reliably explain the decisions made by a NMT model.
Neural sequence-to-sequence models, particularly the Transformer, are the state of the art in machine translation. Yet these neural networks are very sensitive to architecture and hyperparameter settings. Optimizing these settings by grid or random search is computationally expensive because it requires many training runs. In this paper, we incorporate architecture search into a single training run through auto-sizing, which uses regularization to delete neurons in a network over the course of training. On very low-resource language pairs, we show that auto-sizing can improve BLEU scores by up to 3.9 points while removing one-third of the parameters from the model.
Neural machine translation (NMT) often fails in one-to-many translation, e.g., in the translation of multi-word expressions, compounds, and collocations. To improve the translation of phrases, phrase-based NMT systems have been proposed; these typically combine word-based NMT with external phrase dictionaries or with phrase tables from phrase-based statistical MT systems. These solutions introduce a significant overhead of additional resources and computational costs. In this paper, we introduce a phrase-based NMT model built upon continuous-output NMT, in which the decoder generates embeddings of words or phrases. The model uses a fertility module, which guides the decoder to generate embeddings of sequences of varying lengths. We show that our model learns to translate phrases better, performing on par with state of the art phrase-based NMT. Since our model does not resort to softmax computation over a huge vocabulary of phrases, its training time is about 112x faster than the baseline.
Paraphrase generation aims to improve the clarity of a sentence by using different wording that convey similar meaning. For better quality of generated paraphrases, we propose a framework that combines the effectiveness of two models {--} transformer and sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq). We design a two-layer stack of encoders. The first layer is a transformer model containing 6 stacked identical layers with multi-head self attention, while the second-layer is a seq2seq model with gated recurrent units (GRU-RNN). The transformer encoder layer learns to capture long-term dependencies, together with syntactic and semantic properties of the input sentence. This rich vector representation learned by the transformer serves as input to the GRU-RNN encoder responsible for producing the state vector for decoding. Experimental results on two datasets-QUORA and MSCOCO using our framework, produces a new benchmark for paraphrase generation.
The University of Edinburgh participated in all six tracks: NLG, MT, and MT+NLG with both English and German as targeted languages. For the NLG track, we submitted a multilingual system based on the Content Selection and Planning model of Puduppully et al (2019). For the MT track, we submitted Transformer-based Neural Machine Translation models, where out-of-domain parallel data was augmented with in-domain data extracted from monolingual corpora. Our MT+NLG systems disregard the structured input data and instead rely exclusively on the source summaries.
Recently, neural models led to significant improvements in both machine translation (MT) and natural language generation tasks (NLG). However, generation of long descriptive summaries conditioned on structured data remains an open challenge. Likewise, MT that goes beyond sentence-level context is still an open issue (e.g., document-level MT or MT with metadata). To address these challenges, we propose to leverage data from both tasks and do transfer learning between MT, NLG, and MT with source-side metadata (MT+NLG). First, we train document-based MT systems with large amounts of parallel data. Then, we adapt these models to pure NLG and MT+NLG tasks by fine-tuning with smaller amounts of domain-specific data. This end-to-end NLG approach, without data selection and planning, outperforms the previous state of the art on the Rotowire NLG task. We participated to the {``}Document Generation and Translation{''} task at WNGT 2019, and ranked first in all tracks.
In many review classification applications, a fine-grained analysis of the reviews is desirable, because different segments (e.g., sentences) of a review may focus on different aspects of the entity in question. However, training supervised models for segment-level classification requires segment labels, which may be more difficult or expensive to obtain than review labels. In this paper, we employ Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) and use only weak supervision in the form of a single label per review. First, we show that when inappropriate MIL aggregation functions are used, then MIL-based networks are outperformed by simpler baselines. Second, we propose a new aggregation function based on the sigmoid attention mechanism and show that our proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art models for segment-level sentiment classification (by up to 9.8{\%} in F1). Finally, we highlight the importance of fine-grained predictions in an important public-health application: finding actionable reports of foodborne illness. We show that our model achieves 48.6{\%} higher recall compared to previous models, thus increasing the chance of identifying previously unknown foodborne outbreaks.
Typical datasets used for style transfer in NLP contain aligned pairs of two opposite extremes of a style. As each existing dataset is sourced from a specific domain and context, most use cases will have a sizable mismatch from the vocabulary and sentence structures of any dataset available. This reduces the performance of the style transfer, and is particularly significant for noisy, user-generated text. To solve this problem, we show a technique to derive a dataset of aligned pairs (style-agnostic vs stylistic sentences) from an unlabeled corpus by using an auxiliary dataset, allowing for in-domain training. We test the technique with the Yahoo Formality Dataset and 6 novel datasets we produced, which consist of scripts from 5 popular TV-shows (Friends, Futurama, Seinfeld, Southpark, Stargate SG-1) and the Slate Star Codex online forum. We gather 1080 human evaluations, which show that our method produces a sizable change in formality while maintaining fluency and context; and that it considerably outperforms OpenNMT{'}s Seq2Seq model directly trained on the Yahoo Formality Dataset. Additionally, we publish the full pipeline code and our novel datasets.
Naturally occurring paraphrase data, such as multiple news stories about the same event, is a useful but rare resource. This paper compares translation-based paraphrase gathering using human, automatic, or hybrid techniques to monolingual paraphrasing by experts and non-experts. We gather translations, paraphrases, and empirical human quality assessments of these approaches. Neural machine translation techniques, especially when pivoting through related languages, provide a relatively robust source of paraphrases with diversity comparable to expert human paraphrases. Surprisingly, human translators do not reliably outperform neural systems. The resulting data release will not only be a useful test set, but will also allow additional explorations in translation and paraphrase quality assessments and relationships.
Grammar error correction (GEC) systems have become ubiquitous in a variety of software applications, and have started to approach human-level performance for some datasets. However, very little is known about how to efficiently personalize these systems to the user{'}s characteristics, such as their proficiency level and first language, or to emerging domains of text. We present the first results on adapting a general purpose neural GEC system to both the proficiency level and the first language of a writer, using only a few thousand annotated sentences. Our study is the broadest of its kind, covering five proficiency levels and twelve different languages, and comparing three different adaptation scenarios: adapting to the proficiency level only, to the first language only, or to both aspects simultaneously. We show that tailoring to both scenarios achieves the largest performance improvement (3.6 F0.5) relative to a strong baseline.
In this paper, we investigate the modeling power of contextualized embeddings from pre-trained language models, e.g. BERT, on the E2E-ABSA task. Specifically, we build a series of simple yet insightful neural baselines to deal with E2E-ABSA. The experimental results show that even with a simple linear classification layer, our BERT-based architecture can outperform state-of-the-art works. Besides, we also standardize the comparative study by consistently utilizing a hold-out validation dataset for model selection, which is largely ignored by previous works. Therefore, our work can serve as a BERT-based benchmark for E2E-ABSA.
Contemporary machine translation systems achieve greater coverage by applying subword models such as BPE and character-level CNNs, but these methods are highly sensitive to orthographical variations such as spelling mistakes. We show how training on a mild amount of random synthetic noise can dramatically improve robustness to these variations, without diminishing performance on clean text. We focus on translation performance on natural typos, and show that robustness to such noise can be achieved using a balanced diet of simple synthetic noises at training time, without access to the natural noise data or distribution.
Illicit activity on the Web often uses noisy text to obscure information between client and seller, such as the seller{'}s phone number. This presents an interesting challenge to language understanding systems; how do we model adversarial noise in a text extraction system? This paper addresses the sex trafficking domain, and proposes some of the first neural network architectures to learn and extract phone numbers from noisy text. We create a new adversarial advertisement dataset, propose several RNN-based models to solve the problem, and most notably propose a visual character language model to interpret unseen unicode characters. We train a CRF jointly with a CNN to improve number recognition by 89{\%} over just a CRF. Through data augmentation in this unique model, we present the first results on characters never seen in training.
Language is an important marker of a cultural group, large or small. One aspect of language variation between communities is the employment of highly specialized terms with unique significance to the group. We study these high affinity terms across a wide variety of communities by leveraging the rich diversity of Reddit.com. We provide a systematic exploration of high affinity terms, the often rapid semantic shifts they undergo, and their relationship to subreddit characteristics across 2600 diverse subreddits. Our results show that high affinity terms are effective signals of loyal communities, they undergo more semantic shift than low affinity terms, and that they are partial barrier to entry for new users. We conclude that Reddit is a robust and valuable data source for testing further theories about high affinity terms across communities.
The goal of a Question Paraphrase Retrieval (QPR) system is to retrieve equivalent questions that result in the same answer as the original question. Such a system can be used to understand and answer rare and noisy reformulations of common questions by mapping them to a set of canonical forms. This has large-scale applications for community Question Answering (cQA) and open-domain spoken language question answering systems. In this paper we describe a new QPR system implemented as a Neural Information Retrieval (NIR) system consisting of a neural network sentence encoder and an approximate k-Nearest Neighbour index for efficient vector retrieval. We also describe our mechanism to generate an annotated dataset for question paraphrase retrieval experiments automatically from question-answer logs via distant supervision. We show that the standard loss function in NIR, triplet loss, does not perform well with noisy labels. We propose smoothed deep metric loss (SDML) and with our experiments on two QPR datasets we show that it significantly outperforms triplet loss in the noisy label setting.
User reviews provide a significant source of information for companies to understand their market and audience. In order to discover broad trends in this source, researchers have typically used topic models such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). However, while there are metrics to choose the {``}best{''} number of topics, it is not clear whether the resulting topics can also provide in-depth, actionable product analysis. Our paper examines this issue by analyzing user reviews from the Best Buy US website for smart speakers. Using coherence scores to choose topics, we test whether the results help us to understand user interests and concerns. We find that while coherence scores are a good starting point to identify a number of topics, it still requires manual adaptation based on domain knowledge to provide market insights. We show that the resulting dimensions capture brand performance and differences, and differentiate the market into two distinct groups with different properties.
We introduce the task of algorithm class prediction for programming word problems. A programming word problem is a problem written in natural language, which can be solved using an algorithm or a program. We define classes of various programming word problems which correspond to the class of algorithms required to solve the problem. We present four new datasets for this task, two multiclass datasets with 550 and 1159 problems each and two multilabel datasets having 3737 and 3960 problems each. We pose the problem as a text classification problem and train neural network and non-neural network based models on this task. Our best performing classifier gets an accuracy of 62.7 percent for the multiclass case on the five class classification dataset, Codeforces Multiclass-5 (CFMC5). We also do some human-level analysis and compare human performance with that of our text classification models. Our best classifier has an accuracy only 9 percent lower than that of a human on this task. To the best of our knowledge, these are the first reported results on such a task. We make our code and datasets publicly available.
Psychologically motivated, lexicon-based text analysis methods such as LIWC (Pennebaker et al., 2015) have been criticized by computational linguists for their lack of adaptability, but they have not often been systematically compared with either human evaluations or machine learning approaches. The goal of the current study was to assess the effectiveness and predictive ability of LIWC on a relationship goal classification task. In this paper, we compared the outcomes of (1) LIWC, (2) machine learning, and (3) a human baseline. A newly collected corpus of online dating profile texts (a genre not explored before in the ACL anthology) was used, accompanied by the profile writers{'} self-selected relationship goal (long-term versus date). These three approaches were tested by comparing their performance on identifying both the intended relationship goal and content-related text labels. Results show that LIWC and machine learning models correlate with human evaluations in terms of content-related labels. LIWC{'}s content-related labels corresponded more strongly to humans than those of the classifier. Moreover, all approaches were similarly accurate in predicting the relationship goal.
We describe a special type of deep contextualized word representation that is learned from distant supervision annotations and dedicated to named entity recognition. Our extensive experiments on 7 datasets show systematic gains across all domains over strong baselines, and demonstrate that our representation is complementary to previously proposed embeddings. We report new state-of-the-art results on CONLL and ONTONOTES datasets.
Question paraphrasing aims to restate a given question with different expressions but keep the original meaning. Recent approaches are mostly based on neural networks following a sequence-to-sequence fashion, however, these models tend to generate unpredictable results. To overcome this drawback, we propose a pipeline model based on templates. It follows three steps, a) identifies template from the input question, b) retrieves candidate templates, c) fills candidate templates with original topic words. Experiment results on two self-constructed datasets show that our model outperforms the sequence-to-sequence model in a large margin and the advantage is more promising when the size of training sample is small.
Existing natural language processing systems have often been designed with standard texts in mind. However, when these tools are used on the substantially different texts from social media, their performance drops dramatically. One solution is to translate social media data to standard language before processing, this is also called normalization. It is well-known that this improves performance for many natural language processing tasks on social media data. However, little is known about which types of normalization replacements have the most effect. Furthermore, it is unknown what the weaknesses of existing lexical normalization systems are in an extrinsic setting. In this paper, we analyze the effect of manual as well as automatic lexical normalization for dependency parsing. After our analysis, we conclude that for most categories, automatic normalization scores close to manually annotated normalization and that small annotation differences are important to take into consideration when exploiting normalization in a pipeline setup.
Modern e-commerce catalogs contain millions of references, associated with textual and visual information that is of paramount importance for the products to be found via search or browsing. Of particular significance is the book category, where the author name(s) field poses a significant challenge. Indeed, books written by a given author might be listed with different authors{'} names due to abbreviations, spelling variants and mistakes, among others. To solve this problem at scale, we design a composite system involving open data sources for books, as well as deep learning components, such as approximate match with Siamese networks and name correction with sequence-to-sequence networks. We evaluate this approach on product data from the e-commerce website Rakuten France, and find that the top proposal of the system is the normalized author name with 72{\%} accuracy.
The automatic analysis of expressions of opinion has been well studied in the opinion mining area, but a remaining problem is robustness for user-generated texts. Although consumer-generated texts are valuable since they contain a great number and wide variety of user evaluations, spelling inconsistency and the variety of expressions make analysis difficult. In order to tackle such situations, we applied a model that is reported to handle context in many natural language processing areas, to the problem of extracting references to the opinion target from text. Experiments on tweets that refer to television programs show that the model can extract such references with more than 90{\%} accuracy.
We work with Algerian, an under-resourced non-standardised Arabic variety, for which we compile a new parallel corpus consisting of user-generated textual data matched with normalised and corrected human annotations following data-driven and our linguistically motivated standard. We use an end-to-end deep neural model designed to deal with context-dependent spelling correction and normalisation. Results indicate that a model with two CNN sub-network encoders and an LSTM decoder performs the best, and that word context matters. Additionally, pre-processing data token-by-token with an edit-distance based aligner significantly improves the performance. We get promising results for the spelling correction and normalisation, as a pre-processing step for downstream tasks, on detecting binary Semantic Textual Similarity.
We compare different LSTMs and transformer models in terms of their effectiveness in normalizing dialectal Finnish into the normative standard Finnish. As dialect is the common way of communication for people online in Finnish, such a normalization is a necessary step to improve the accuracy of the existing Finnish NLP tools that are tailored for normative Finnish text. We work on a corpus consisting of dialectal data of 23 distinct Finnish dialects. The best functioning BRNN approach lowers the initial word error rate of the corpus from 52.89 to 5.73.
In relevance classification, we hope to judge whether some utterances expressed on a topic are relevant or not. A usual method is to train a specific classifier respectively for each topic. However, in that way, it easily causes an underfitting problem in supervised learning model, since annotated data can be insufficient for every single topic. In this paper, we explore the common features beyond different topics and propose our cross-topic relevance embedding aggregation methodology (CREAM) that can expand the range of training data and apply what has been learned from source topics to a target topic. In our experiment, we show that our proposal could capture common features within a small amount of annotated data and improve the performance of relevance classification compared with other baselines.
We study methods for learning sentence embeddings with syntactic structure. We focus on methods of learning syntactic sentence-embeddings by using a multilingual parallel-corpus augmented by Universal Parts-of-Speech tags. We evaluate the quality of the learned embeddings by examining sentence-level nearest neighbours and functional dissimilarity in the embedding space. We also evaluate the ability of the method to learn syntactic sentence-embeddings for low-resource languages and demonstrate strong evidence for transfer learning. Our results show that syntactic sentence-embeddings can be learned while using less training data, fewer model parameters, and resulting in better evaluation metrics than state-of-the-art language models.
We propose a Chinese spell checker {--} FASPell based on a new paradigm which consists of a denoising autoencoder (DAE) and a decoder. In comparison with previous state-of-the-art models, the new paradigm allows our spell checker to be Faster in computation, readily Adaptable to both simplified and traditional Chinese texts produced by either humans or machines, and to require much Simpler structure to be as much Powerful in both error detection and correction. These four achievements are made possible because the new paradigm circumvents two bottlenecks. First, the DAE curtails the amount of Chinese spell checking data needed for supervised learning (to {\textless}10k sentences) by leveraging the power of unsupervisedly pre-trained masked language model as in BERT, XLNet, MASS etc. Second, the decoder helps to eliminate the use of confusion set that is deficient in flexibility and sufficiency of utilizing the salient feature of Chinese character similarity.
The Princeton WordNet is a powerful tool for studying language and developing natural language processing algorithms. With significant work developing it further, one line considers its extension through aligning its expert-annotated structure with other lexical resources. In contrast, this work explores a completely data-driven approach to network construction, forming a wordnet using the entirety of the open-source, noisy, user-annotated dictionary, Wiktionary. Comparing baselines to WordNet, we find compelling evidence that our network induction process constructs a network with useful semantic structure. With thousands of semantically-linked examples that demonstrate sense usage from basic lemmas to multiword expressions (MWEs), we believe this work motivates future research.
Contemporary datasets on tobacco consumption focus on one of two topics, either public health mentions and disease surveillance, or sentiment analysis on topical tobacco products and services. However, two primary considerations are not accounted for, the language of the demographic affected and a combination of the topics mentioned above in a fine-grained classification mechanism. In this paper, we create a dataset of 3144 tweets, which are selected based on the presence of colloquial slang related to smoking and analyze it based on the semantics of the tweet. Each class is created and annotated based on the content of the tweets such that further hierarchical methods can be easily applied. Further, we prove the efficacy of standard text classification methods on this dataset, by designing experiments which do both binary as well as multi-class classification. Our experiments tackle the identification of either a specific topic (such as tobacco product promotion), a general mention (cigarettes and related products) or a more fine-grained classification. This methodology paves the way for further analysis, such as understanding sentiment or style, which makes this dataset a vital contribution to both disease surveillance and tobacco use research.
In the context of document quality assessment, previous work has mainly focused on predicting the quality of a document relative to a putative gold standard, without paying attention to the subjectivity of this task. To imitate people{'}s disagreement over inherently subjective tasks such as rating the quality of a Wikipedia article, a document quality assessment system should provide not only a prediction of the article quality but also the uncertainty over its predictions. This motivates us to measure the uncertainty in document quality predictions, in addition to making the label prediction. Experimental results show that both Gaussian processes (GPs) and random forests (RFs) can yield competitive results in predicting the quality of Wikipedia articles, while providing an estimate of uncertainty when there is inconsistency in the quality labels from the Wikipedia contributors. We additionally evaluate our methods in the context of a semi-automated document quality class assignment decision-making process, where there is asymmetric risk associated with overestimates and underestimates of document quality. Our experiments suggest that GPs provide more reliable estimates in this context.
Approaches to knowledge extraction (KE) in the health domain often start by annotating text to indicate the knowledge to be extracted, and then use the annotated text to train systems to perform the KE. This may work for annotat- ing named entities or other contiguous noun phrases (drugs, some drug effects), but be- comes increasingly difficult when items tend to be expressed across multiple, possibly non- contiguous, syntactic constituents (e.g. most descriptions of drug effects in user-generated text). Other issues include that it is not al- ways clear how annotations map to actionable insights, or how they scale up to, or can form part of, more complex KE tasks. This paper reports our efforts in developing an approach to extracting knowledge about drug nonadher- ence from health forums which led us to con- clude that development cannot proceed in sep- arate steps but that all aspects{---}from concep- tualisation to annotation scheme development, annotation, KE system training and knowl- edge graph instantiation{---}are interdependent and need to be co-developed. Our aim in this paper is two-fold: we describe a generally ap- plicable framework for developing a KE ap- proach, and present a specific KE approach, developed with the framework, for the task of gathering information about antidepressant drug nonadherence. We report the conceptual- isation, the annotation scheme, the annotated corpus, and an analysis of annotated texts.
Irony detection is an important task with applications in identification of online abuse and harassment. With the ubiquitous use of non-verbal cues such as emojis in social media, in this work we aim to study the role of these structures in irony detection. Since the existing irony detection datasets have {\textless}10{\%} ironic tweets with emoji, classifiers trained on them are insensitive to emojis. We propose an automated pipeline for creating a more balanced dataset.
Geolocation, predicting the location of a post based on text and other information, has a huge potential for several social media applications. Typically, the problem is modeled as either multi-class classification or regression. In the first case, the classes are geographic areas previously identified; in the second, the models directly predict geographic coordinates. The former requires discretization of the coordinates, but yields better performance. The latter is potentially more precise and true to the nature of the problem, but often results in worse performance. We propose to combine the two approaches in an attentionbased multitask convolutional neural network that jointly predicts both discrete locations and continuous geographic coordinates. We evaluate the multi-task (MTL) model against singletask models and prior work. We find that MTL significantly improves performance, reporting large gains on one data set, but also note that the correlation between labels and coordinates has a marked impact on the effectiveness of including a regression task.
Prior research has shown that geolocation can be substantially improved by including user network information. While effective, it suffers from the curse of dimensionality, since networks are usually represented as sparse adjacency matrices of connections, which grow exponentially with the number of users. In order to incorporate this information, we therefore need to limit the network size, in turn limiting performance and risking sample bias. In this paper, we address these limitations by instead using dense network representations. We explore two methods to learn continuous node representations from either 1) the network structure with node2vec (Grover and Leskovec, 2016), or 2) textual user mentions via doc2vec (Le and Mikolov, 2014). We combine both methods with input from social media posts in an attention-based convolutional neural network and evaluate the contribution of each component on geolocation performance. Our method enables us to incorporate arbitrarily large networks in a fixed-length vector, without limiting the network size. Our models achieve competitive results with similar state-of-the-art methods, but with much fewer model parameters, while being applicable to networks of virtually any size.
Geolocating social media posts relies on the assumption that language carries sufficient geographic information. However, locations are usually given as continuous latitude/longitude tuples, so we first need to define discrete geographic regions that can serve as labels. Most studies use some form of clustering to discretize the continuous coordinates (Han et al., 2016). However, the resulting regions do not always correspond to existing linguistic areas. Consequently, accuracy at 100 miles tends to be good, but degrades for finer-grained distinctions, when different linguistic regions get lumped together. We describe a new algorithm, Point-to-City (P2C), an iterative k-d tree-based method for clustering geographic coordinates and associating them with towns. We create three sets of labels at different levels of granularity, and compare performance of a state-of-the-art geolocation model trained and tested with P2C labels to one with regular k-d tree labels. Even though P2C results in substantially more labels than the baseline, model accuracy increases significantly over using traditional labels at the fine-grained level, while staying comparable at 100 miles. The results suggest that identifying meaningful linguistic areas is crucial for improving geolocation at a fine-grained level.
Robustness to capitalization errors is a highly desirable characteristic of named entity recognizers, yet we find standard models for the task are surprisingly brittle to such noise.Existing methods to improve robustness to the noise completely discard given orthographic information, which significantly degrades their performance on well-formed text. We propose a simple alternative approach based on data augmentation, which allows the model to learn to utilize or ignore orthographic information depending on its usefulness in the context. It achieves competitive robustness to capitalization errors while making negligible compromise to its performance on well-formed text and significantly improving generalization power on noisy user-generated text. Our experiments clearly and consistently validate our claim across different types of machine learning models, languages, and dataset sizes.
Traditional event detection classifies a word or a phrase in a given sentence for a set of prede- fined event types. The limitation of such pre- defined set is that it prevents the adaptation of the event detection models to new event types. We study a novel formulation of event detec- tion that describes types via several keywords to match the contexts in documents. This fa- cilitates the operation of the models to new types. We introduce a novel feature-based attention mechanism for convolutional neural networks for event detection in the new for- mulation. Our extensive experiments demon- strate the benefits of the new formulation for new type extension for event detection as well as the proposed attention mechanism for this problem
Distant supervised relation extraction is an efficient and effective strategy to find relations between entities in texts. However, it inevitably suffers from mislabeling problem and the noisy data will hinder the performance. In this paper, we propose the Separate Head-Tail Convolution Neural Network (SHTCNN), a novel neural relation extraction framework to alleviate this issue. In this method, we apply separate convolution and pooling to the head and tail entity respectively for extracting better semantic features of sentences, and coarse-to-fine strategy to filter out instances which do not have actual relations in order to alleviate noisy data issues. Experiments on a widely used dataset show that our model achieves significant and consistent improvements in relation extraction compared to statistical and vanilla CNN-based methods.
In this work, we revisit the functions of language proposed by linguist Roman Jakobson and we highlight their potential in analyzing online forum conversations. We investigate the relationship between functions and other properties of comments, such as controversiality. We propose and evaluate a semi-supervised framework for predicting the functions of Reddit comments. To accommodate further research, we release a corpus of 165K comments annotated with their functions of language.
The state-of-the-art neural network architectures make it possible to create spoken language understanding systems with high quality and fast processing time. One major challenge for real-world applications is the high latency of these systems caused by triggered actions with high executions times. If an action can be separated into subactions, the reaction time of the systems can be improved through incremental processing of the user utterance and starting subactions while the utterance is still being uttered. In this work, we present a model-agnostic method to achieve high quality in processing incrementally produced partial utterances. Based on clean and noisy versions of the ATIS dataset, we show how to create datasets with our method to create low-latency natural language understanding components. We get improvements of up to 47.91 absolute percentage points in the metric F1-score.
One of the most persistent characteristics of written user-generated content (UGC) is the use of non-standard words. This characteristic contributes to an increased difficulty to automatically process and analyze UGC. Text normalization is the task of transforming lexical variants to their canonical forms and is often used as a pre-processing step for conventional NLP tasks in order to overcome the performance drop that NLP systems experience when applied to UGC. In this work, we follow a Neural Machine Translation approach to text normalization. To train such an encoder-decoder model, large parallel training corpora of sentence pairs are required. However, obtaining large data sets with UGC and their normalized version is not trivial, especially for languages other than English. In this paper, we explore how to overcome this data bottleneck for Dutch, a low-resource language. We start off with a small publicly available parallel Dutch data set comprising three UGC genres and compare two different approaches. The first is to manually normalize and add training data, a money and time-consuming task. The second approach is a set of data augmentation techniques which increase data size by converting existing resources into synthesized non-standard forms. Our results reveal that, while the different approaches yield similar results regarding the normalization issues in the test set, they also introduce a large amount of over-normalizations.
Recently, with the help of deep learning models, significant advances have been made in different Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. Unfortunately, state-of-the-art models are vulnerable to noisy texts. We propose a new contextual text denoising algorithm based on the ready-to-use masked language model. The proposed algorithm does not require retraining of the model and can be integrated into any NLP system without additional training on paired cleaning training data. We evaluate our method under synthetic noise and natural noise and show that the proposed algorithm can use context information to correct noise text and improve the performance of noisy inputs in several downstream tasks.
We present a system for automating Semantic Role Labelling of Hindi-English code-mixed tweets. We explore the issues posed by noisy, user generated code-mixed social media data. We also compare the individual effect of various linguistic features used in our system. Our proposed model is a 2-step system for automated labelling which gives an overall accuracy of 84{\%} for Argument Classification, marking a 10{\%} increase over the existing rule-based baseline model. This is the first attempt at building a statistical Semantic Role Labeller for Hindi-English code-mixed data, to the best of our knowledge.
Language model-based pre-trained representations have become ubiquitous in natural language processing. They have been shown to significantly improve the performance of neural models on a great variety of tasks. However, it remains unclear how useful those general models can be in handling non-canonical text. In this article, focusing on User Generated Content (UGC), we study the ability of BERT to perform lexical normalisation. Our contribution is simple: by framing lexical normalisation as a token prediction task, by enhancing its architecture and by carefully fine-tuning it, we show that BERT can be a competitive lexical normalisation model without the need of any UGC resources aside from 3,000 training sentences. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first work done in adapting and analysing the ability of this model to handle noisy UGC data.
We present a probabilistic clustering algorithm that can help Reddit users to find posts that discuss experiences similar to their own. This model is built upon the BERT Next Sentence Prediction model and reduces the time complexity for clustering all posts in a corpus from O(n{\^{}}2) to O(n) with respect to the number of posts. We demonstrate that such probabilistic clustering can yield a performance better than baseline clustering methods based on Latent Dirichlet Allocation (Blei et al., 2003) and Word2Vec (Mikolov et al., 2013). Furthermore, there is a high degree of coherence between our probabilistic clustering and the exhaustive comparison O(n{\^{}}2) algorithm in which the similarity between every pair of posts is found. This makes the use of the BERT Next Sentence Prediction model more practical for unsupervised clustering tasks due to the high runtime overhead of each BERT computation.
Deep learning based general language models have achieved state-of-the-art results in many popular tasks such as sentiment analysis and QA tasks. Text in domains like social media has its own salient characteristics. Domain knowledge should be helpful in domain relevant tasks. In this work, we devise a simple method to obtain domain knowledge and further propose a method to integrate domain knowledge with general knowledge based on deep language models to improve performance of emotion classification. Experiments on Twitter data show that even though a deep language model fine-tuned by a target domain data has attained comparable results to that of previous state-of-the-art models, this fine-tuned model can still benefit from our extracted domain knowledge to obtain more improvement. This highlights the importance of making use of domain knowledge in domain-specific applications.
Mental health poses a significant challenge for an individual{'}s well-being. Text analysis of rich resources, like social media, can contribute to deeper understanding of illnesses and provide means for their early detection. We tackle a challenge of detecting social media users{'} mental status through deep learning-based models, moving away from traditional approaches to the task. In a binary classification task on predicting if a user suffers from one of nine different disorders, a hierarchical attention network outperforms previously set benchmarks for four of the disorders. Furthermore, we explore the limitations of our model and analyze phrases relevant for classification by inspecting the model{'}s word-level attention weights.
Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models have been proved strong when translating clean texts, but they are very sensitive to noise in the input. Improving NMT models robustness can be seen as a form of {``}domain{''} adaption to noise. The recently created Machine Translation on Noisy Text task corpus provides noisy-clean parallel data for a few language pairs, but this data is very limited in size and diversity. The state-of-the-art approaches are heavily dependent on large volumes of back-translated data. This paper has two main contributions: Firstly, we propose new data augmentation methods to extend limited noisy data and further improve NMT robustness to noise while keeping the models small. Secondly, we explore the effect of utilizing noise from external data in the form of speech transcripts and show that it could help robustness.
Due to the nature of online user reviews, sentiment analysis on such data requires a deep semantic understanding of the text. Many online reviews are sarcastic, humorous, or hateful. Signals from such language nuances may reinforce or completely alter the sentiment of a review as predicted by a machine learning model that attempts to detect sentiment alone. Thus, having a model that is explicitly aware of these features should help it perform better on reviews that are characterized by them. We propose a composite two-step model that extracts features pertaining to sarcasm, humour, hate speech, as well as sentiment, in the first step, feeding them in conjunction to inform sentiment classification in the second step. We show that this multi-step approach leads to a better empirical performance for sentiment classification than a model that predicts sentiment alone. A qualitative analysis reveals that the conjunctive approach can better capture the nuances of sentiment as expressed in online reviews.
Grammatical error correction in English is a long studied problem with many existing systems and datasets. However, there has been only a limited research on error correction of other languages. In this paper, we present a new dataset AKCES-GEC on grammatical error correction for Czech. We then make experiments on Czech, German and Russian and show that when utilizing synthetic parallel corpus, Transformer neural machine translation model can reach new state-of-the-art results on these datasets. AKCES-GEC is published under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license at http://hdl.handle.net/11234/1-3057, and the source code of the GEC model is available at https://github.com/ufal/low-resource-gec-wnut2019.
There has been an increased interest in low-resource approaches to automatic grammatical error correction. We introduce Minimally-Augmented Grammatical Error Correction (MAGEC) that does not require any error-labelled data. Our unsupervised approach is based on a simple but effective synthetic error generation method based on confusion sets from inverted spell-checkers. In low-resource settings, we outperform the current state-of-the-art results for German and Russian GEC tasks by a large margin without using any real error-annotated training data. When combined with labelled data, our method can serve as an efficient pre-training technique
We present a gold standard of annotated social opinion for the Malta Government Budget 2018. It consists of over 500 online posts in English and/or the Maltese less-resourced language, gathered from social media platforms, specifically, social networking services and newswires, which have been annotated with information about opinions expressed by the general public and other entities, in terms of sentiment polarity, emotion, sarcasm/irony, and negation. This dataset is a resource for opinion mining based on social data, within the context of politics. It is the first opinion annotated social dataset from Malta, which has very limited language resources available.
This study analyzes the political slants of user comments on Korean partisan media. We built a BERT-based classifier to detect political leaning of short comments via the use of semi-unsupervised deep learning methods that produced an F1 score of 0.83. As a result of classifying 21.6K comments, we found the high presence of conservative bias on both conservative and liberal news outlets. Moreover, this study discloses an asymmetry across the partisan spectrum in that more liberals (48.0{\%}) than conservatives (23.6{\%}) comment not only on news stories resonating with their political perspectives but also on those challenging their viewpoints. These findings advance the current understanding of online echo chambers.
Distinguishing between singular and plural {``}you{''} in English is a challenging task which has potential for downstream applications, such as machine translation or coreference resolution. While formal written English does not distinguish between these cases, other languages (such as Spanish), as well as other dialects of English (via phrases such as {``}y{'}all{''}), do make this distinction. We make use of this to obtain distantly-supervised labels for the task on a large-scale in two domains. Following, we train a model to distinguish between the single/plural {`}you{'}, finding that although in-domain training achieves reasonable accuracy ({\mbox{$\geq$}} 77{\%}), there is still a lot of room for improvement, especially in the domain-transfer scenario, which proves extremely challenging. Our code and data are publicly available.
We propose an edit-centric approach to assess Wikipedia article quality as a complementary alternative to current full document-based techniques. Our model consists of a main classifier equipped with an auxiliary generative module which, for a given edit, jointly provides an estimation of its quality and generates a description in natural language. We performed an empirical study to assess the feasibility of the proposed model and its cost-effectiveness in terms of data and quality requirements.
Additive compositionality of word embedding models has been studied from empirical and theoretical perspectives. Existing research on justifying additive compositionality of existing word embedding models requires a rather strong assumption of uniform word distribution. In this paper, we relax that assumption and propose more realistic conditions for proving additive compositionality, and we develop a novel word and sub-word embedding model that satisfies additive compositionality under those conditions. We then empirically show our model{'}s improved semantic representation performance on word similarity and noisy sentence similarity.
Lexical substitution ranks substitution candidates from the viewpoint of paraphrasability for a target word in a given sentence. There are two major approaches for lexical substitution: (1) generating contextualized word embeddings by assigning multiple embeddings to one word and (2) generating context embeddings using the sentence. Herein we propose a method that combines these two approaches to contextualize word embeddings for lexical substitution. Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the current state-of-the-art method. We also create CEFR-LP, a new evaluation dataset for the lexical substitution task. It has a wider coverage of substitution candidates than previous datasets and assigns English proficiency levels to all target words and substitution candidates.
We present an approach to correct noisy User Generated Content (UGC) in French aiming to produce a pretreatement pipeline to improve Machine Translation for this kind of non-canonical corpora. In order to do so, we have implemented a character-based neural model phonetizer to produce IPA pronunciations of words. In this way, we intend to correct grammar, vocabulary and accentuation errors often present in noisy UGC corpora. Our method leverages on the fact that some errors are due to confusion induced by words with similar pronunciation which can be corrected using a phonetic look-up table to produce normalization candidates. These potential corrections are then encoded in a lattice and ranked using a language model to output the most probable corrected phrase. Compare to using other phonetizers, our method boosts a transformer-based machine translation system on UGC.
Twitter is an excellent source of data for NLP researches as it offers tremendous amount of textual data. However, processing tweet to extract meaningful information is very challenging, at least for two reasons: (i) using nonstandard words as well as informal writing manner, and (ii) code-mixing issues, which is combining multiple languages in single tweet conversation. Most of the previous works have addressed both issues in isolated different task. In this study, we work on normalization task in code-mixed Twitter data, more specifically in Indonesian-English language. We propose a pipeline that consists of four modules, i.e tokenization, language identification, lexical normalization, and translation. Another contribution is to provide a gold standard of Indonesian-English code-mixed data for each module.
This paper presents an approach for detecting and normalizing neologisms in social media content. Neologisms refer to recent expressions that are specific to certain entities or events and are being increasingly used by the public, but have not yet been accepted in mainstream language. Automated methods for handling neologisms are important for natural language understanding and normalization, especially for informal genres with user generated content. We present an unsupervised approach for detecting neologisms and then normalizing them to canonical words without relying on parallel training data. Our approach builds on the text normalization literature and introduces adaptations to fit the specificities of this task, including phonetic and etymological considerations. We evaluate the proposed techniques on a dataset of Reddit comments, with detected neologisms and corresponding normalizations.
Understanding the vulnerability of linguistic features extracted from noisy text is important for both developing better health text classification models and for interpreting vulnerabilities of natural language models. In this paper, we investigate how generic language characteristics, such as syntax or the lexicon, are impacted by artificial text alterations. The vulnerability of features is analysed from two perspectives: (1) the level of feature value change, and (2) the level of change of feature predictive power as a result of text modifications. We show that lexical features are more sensitive to text modifications than syntactic ones. However, we also demonstrate that these smaller changes of syntactic features have a stronger influence on classification performance downstream, compared to the impact of changes to lexical features. Results are validated across three datasets representing different text-classification tasks, with different levels of lexical and syntactic complexity of both conversational and written language.
Regarding the problem of automatically generating paraphrases with modified styles or attributes, the difficulty lies in the lack of parallel corpora. Numerous advances have been proposed for the generation. However, significant problems remain with the auto-evaluation of style transfer tasks. Based on the summary of Pang and Gimpel (2018) and Mir et al. (2019), style transfer evaluations rely on three metrics: post-transfer style classification accuracy, content or semantic similarity, and naturalness or fluency. We elucidate the dangerous current state of style transfer auto-evaluation research. Moreover, we propose ways to aggregate the three metrics into one evaluator. This abstract aims to bring researchers to think about the future of style transfer and style transfer evaluation research.
In contrast to many decades of research on oral code-switching, the study of written multilingual productions has only recently enjoyed a surge of interest. Many open questions remain regarding the sociolinguistic underpinnings of written code-switching, and progress has been limited by a lack of suitable resources. We introduce a novel, large, and diverse dataset of written code-switched productions, curated from topical threads of multiple bilingual communities on the Reddit discussion platform, and explore questions that were mainly addressed in the context of spoken language thus far. We investigate whether findings in oral code-switching concerning content and style, as well as speaker proficiency, are carried over into written code-switching in discussion forums. The released dataset can further facilitate a range of research and practical activities.
In recent years, the task of Question Answering over passages, also pitched as a reading comprehension, has evolved into a very active research area. A reading comprehension system extracts a span of text, comprising of named entities, dates, small phrases, etc., which serve as the answer to a given question. However, these spans of text would result in an unnatural reading experience in a conversational system. Usually, dialogue systems solve this issue by using template-based language generation. These systems, though adequate for a domain specific task, are too restrictive and predefined for a domain independent system. In order to present the user with a more conversational experience, we propose a pointer generator based full-length answer generator which can be used with most QA systems. Our system generates a full length answer given a question and the extracted factoid/span answer without relying on the passage from where the answer was extracted. We also present a dataset of 315000 question, factoid answer and full length answer triples. We have evaluated our system using ROUGE-1,2,L and BLEU and achieved 74.05 BLEU score and 86.25 Rogue-L score.
As an attempt to combine extractive and abstractive summarization, Sentence Rewriting models adopt the strategy of extracting salient sentences from a document first and then paraphrasing the selected ones to generate a summary. However, the existing models in this framework mostly rely on sentence-level rewards or suboptimal labels, causing a mismatch between a training objective and evaluation metric. In this paper, we present a novel training signal that directly maximizes summary-level ROUGE scores through reinforcement learning. In addition, we incorporate BERT into our model, making good use of its ability on natural language understanding. In extensive experiments, we show that a combination of our proposed model and training procedure obtains new state-of-the-art performance on both CNN/Daily Mail and New York Times datasets. We also demonstrate that it generalizes better on DUC-2002 test set.
Timeline summarization (TLS) automatically identifies key dates of major events and provides short descriptions of what happened on these dates. Previous approaches to TLS have focused on extractive methods. In contrast, we suggest an abstractive timeline summarization system. Our system is entirely unsupervised, which makes it especially suited to TLS where there are very few gold summaries available for training of supervised systems. In addition, we present the first abstractive oracle experiments for TLS. Our system outperforms extractive competitors in terms of ROUGE when the number of input documents is high and the output requires strong compression. In these cases, our oracle experiments confirm that our approach also has a higher upper bound for ROUGE scores than extractive methods. A study with human judges shows that our abstractive system also produces output that is easy to read and understand.
Linking facts across documents is a challenging task, as the language used to express the same information in a sentence can vary significantly, which complicates the task of multi-document summarization. Consequently, existing approaches heavily rely on hand-crafted features, which are domain-dependent and hard to craft, or additional annotated data, which is costly to gather. To overcome these limitations, we present a novel method, which makes use of two types of sentence embeddings: universal embeddings, which are trained on a large unrelated corpus, and domain-specific embeddings, which are learned during training. To this end, we develop SemSentSum, a fully data-driven model able to leverage both types of sentence embeddings by building a sentence semantic relation graph. SemSentSum achieves competitive results on two types of summary, consisting of 665 bytes and 100 words. Unlike other state-of-the-art models, neither hand-crafted features nor additional annotated data are necessary, and the method is easily adaptable for other tasks. To our knowledge, we are the first to use multiple sentence embeddings for the task of multi-document summarization.
User-generated reviews of products or services provide valuable information to customers. However, it is often impossible to read each of the potentially thousands of reviews: it would therefore save valuable time to provide short summaries of their contents. We address opinion summarization, a multi-document summarization task, with an unsupervised abstractive summarization neural system. Our system is based on (i) a language model that is meant to encode reviews to a vector space, and to generate fluent sentences from the same vector space (ii) a clustering step that groups together reviews about the same aspects and allows the system to generate summary sentences focused on these aspects. Our experiments on the Oposum dataset empirically show the importance of the clustering step.
Automatic summarization methods have been studied on a variety of domains, including news and scientific articles. Yet, legislation has not previously been considered for this task, despite US Congress and state governments releasing tens of thousands of bills every year. In this paper, we introduce BillSum, the first dataset for summarization of US Congressional and California state bills. We explain the properties of the dataset that make it more challenging to process than other domains. Then, we benchmark extractive methods that consider neural sentence representations and traditional contextual features. Finally, we demonstrate that models built on Congressional bills can be used to summarize California billa, thus, showing that methods developed on this dataset can transfer to states without human-written summaries.
We suggest a new idea of Editorial Network {--} a mixed extractive-abstractive summarization approach, which is applied as a post-processing step over a given sequence of extracted sentences. We further suggest an effective way for training the {``}editor{''} based on a novel soft-labeling approach. Using the CNN/DailyMail dataset we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach compared to state-of-the-art extractive-only or abstractive-only baselines.
Highlighting is a powerful tool to pick out important content and emphasize. Creating summary highlights at the sub-sentence level is particularly desirable, because sub-sentences are more concise than whole sentences. They are also better suited than individual words and phrases that can potentially lead to disfluent, fragmented summaries. In this paper we seek to generate summary highlights by annotating summary-worthy sub-sentences and teaching classifiers to do the same. We frame the task as jointly selecting important sentences and identifying a single most informative textual unit from each sentence. This formulation dramatically reduces the task complexity involved in sentence compression. Our study provides new benchmarks and baselines for generating highlights at the sub-sentence level.
This paper introduces the SAMSum Corpus, a new dataset with abstractive dialogue summaries. We investigate the challenges it poses for automated summarization by testing several models and comparing their results with those obtained on a corpus of news articles. We show that model-generated summaries of dialogues achieve higher ROUGE scores than the model-generated summaries of news {--} in contrast with human evaluators{'} judgement. This suggests that a challenging task of abstractive dialogue summarization requires dedicated models and non-standard quality measures. To our knowledge, our study is the first attempt to introduce a high-quality chat-dialogues corpus, manually annotated with abstractive summarizations, which can be used by the research community for further studies.
In this paper, we take stock of the current state of summarization datasets and explore how different factors of datasets influence the generalization behaviour of neural extractive summarization models. Specifically, we first propose several properties of datasets, which matter for the generalization of summarization models. Then we build the connection between priors residing in datasets and model designs, analyzing how different properties of datasets influence the choices of model structure design and training methods. Finally, by taking a typical dataset as an example, we rethink the process of the model design based on the experience of the above analysis. We demonstrate that when we have a deep understanding of the characteristics of datasets, a simple approach can bring significant improvements to the existing state-of-the-art model.
We construct Global Voices, a multilingual dataset for evaluating cross-lingual summarization methods. We extract social-network descriptions of Global Voices news articles to cheaply collect evaluation data for into-English and from-English summarization in 15 languages. Especially, for the into-English summarization task, we crowd-source a high-quality evaluation dataset based on guidelines that emphasize accuracy, coverage, and understandability. To ensure the quality of this dataset, we collect human ratings to filter out bad summaries, and conduct a survey on humans, which shows that the remaining summaries are preferred over the social-network summaries. We study the effect of translation quality in cross-lingual summarization, comparing a translate-then-summarize approach with several baselines. Our results highlight the limitations of the ROUGE metric that are overlooked in monolingual summarization.
Emerged as one of the best performing techniques for extractive summarization, determinantal point processes select a most probable set of summary sentences according to a probabilistic measure defined by respectively modeling sentence prominence and pairwise repulsion. Traditionally, both aspects are modelled using shallow and linguistically informed features, but the rise of deep contextualized representations raises an interesting question. Whether, and to what extent, could contextualized sentence representations be used to improve the DPP framework? Our findings suggest that, despite the success of deep semantic representations, it remains necessary to combine them with surface indicators for effective identification of summary-worthy sentences.
While recent work in abstractive summarization has resulted in higher scores in automatic metrics, there is little understanding on how these systems combine information taken from multiple document sentences. In this paper, we analyze the outputs of five state-of-the-art abstractive summarizers, focusing on summary sentences that are formed by sentence fusion. We ask assessors to judge the grammaticality, faithfulness, and method of fusion for summary sentences. Our analysis reveals that system sentences are mostly grammatical, but often fail to remain faithful to the original article.
Concept maps are visual summaries, structured as directed graphs: important concepts from a dataset are displayed as vertexes, and edges between vertexes show natural language descriptions of the relationships between the concepts on the map. Thus far, preliminary attempts at automatically creating concept maps have focused on building static summaries. However, in interactive settings, users will need to dynamically investigate particular relationships between pairs of concepts. For instance, a historian using a concept map browser might decide to investigate the relationship between two politicians in a news archive. We present a model which responds to such queries by returning one or more short, importance-ranked, natural language descriptions of the relationship between two requested concepts, for display in a visual interface. Our model is trained on a new public dataset, collected for this task.
Extractive summarization selects and concatenates the most essential text spans in a document. Most, if not all, neural approaches use sentences as the elementary unit to select content for summarization. However, semantic segments containing supplementary information or descriptive details are often nonessential in the generated summaries. In this work, we propose to exploit discourse-level segmentation as a finer-grained means to more precisely pinpoint the core content in a document. We investigate how the sub-sentential segmentation improves extractive summarization performance when content selection is modeled through two basic neural network architectures and a deep bi-directional transformer. Experiment results on the CNN/Daily Mail dataset show that discourse-level segmentation is effective in both cases. In particular, we achieve state-of-the-art performance when discourse-level segmentation is combined with our adapted contextual representation model.
Text adventure games, in which players must make sense of the world through text descriptions and declare actions through text descriptions, provide a stepping stone toward grounding action in language. Prior work has demonstrated that using a knowledge graph as a state representation and question-answering to pre-train a deep Q-network facilitates faster control policy learning. In this paper, we explore the use of knowledge graphs as a representation for domain knowledge transfer for training text-adventure playing reinforcement learning agents. Our methods are tested across multiple computer generated and human authored games, varying in domain and complexity, and demonstrate that our transfer learning methods let us learn a higher-quality control policy faster.
Knowledge graphs (KGs) are generally used for various NLP tasks. However, as KGs still miss some information, it is necessary to develop Knowledge Graph Completion (KGC) methods. Most KGC researches do not focus on the Out-of-KGs entities (Unseen-entities), we need a method that can predict the relation for the entity pairs containing Unseen-entities to automatically add new entities to the KGs. In this study, we focus on relation prediction and propose a method to learn entity representations via a graph structure that uses Seen-entities, Unseen-entities and words as nodes created from the descriptions of all entities. In the experiments, our method shows a significant improvement in the relation prediction for the entity pairs containing Unseen-entities.
In this paper, we consider the named entity linking (NEL) problem. We assume a set of queries, named entities, that have to be identified within a knowledge base. This knowledge base is represented by a text database paired with a semantic graph, endowed with a classification of entities (ontology). We present state-of-the-art methods in NEL, and propose a new method for individual identification requiring few annotated data samples. We demonstrate its scalability and performance over standard datasets, for several ontology configurations. Our approach is well-motivated for integration in real systems. Indeed, recent deep learning methods, despite their capacity to improve experimental precision, require lots of parameter tuning along with large volume of annotated data.
Speech translation systems usually follow a pipeline approach, using word lattices as an intermediate representation. However, previous work assume access to the original transcriptions used to train the ASR system, which can limit applicability in real scenarios. In this work we propose an approach for speech translation through lattice transformations and neural models based on graph networks. Experimental results show that our approach reaches competitive performance without relying on transcriptions, while also being orders of magnitude faster than previous work.
Word embedding algorithms have become a common tool in the field of natural language processing. While some, like Word2Vec, are based on sequential text input, others are utilizing a graph representation of text. In this paper, we introduce a new algorithm, named WordGraph2Vec, or in short WG2V, which combines the two approaches to gain the benefits of both. The algorithm uses a directed word graph to provide additional information for sequential text input algorithms. Our experiments on benchmark datasets show that text classification algorithms are nearly as accurate with WG2V as with other word embedding models while preserving more stable accuracy rankings.
Recent advances in reading comprehension have resulted in models that surpass human performance when the answer is contained in a single, continuous passage of text. However, complex Question Answering (QA) typically requires multi-hop reasoning - i.e. the integration of supporting facts from different sources, to infer the correct answer. This paper proposes Document Graph Network (DGN), a message passing architecture for the identification of supporting facts over a graph-structured representation of text. The evaluation on HotpotQA shows that DGN obtains competitive results when compared to a reading comprehension baseline operating on raw text, confirming the relevance of structured representations for supporting multi-hop reasoning.
Paraphrases are important linguistic resources for a wide variety of NLP applications. Many techniques for automatic paraphrase mining from general corpora have been proposed. While these techniques are successful at discovering generic paraphrases, they often fail to identify domain-specific paraphrases (e.g., {staff, concierge} in the hospitality domain). This is because current techniques are often based on statistical methods, while domain-specific corpora are too small to fit statistical methods. In this paper, we present an unsupervised graph-based technique to mine paraphrases from a small set of sentences that roughly share the same topic or intent. Our system, Essentia, relies on word-alignment techniques to create a word-alignment graph that merges and organizes tokens from input sentences. The resulting graph is then used to generate candidate paraphrases. We demonstrate that our system obtains high quality paraphrases, as evaluated by crowd workers. We further show that the majority of the identified paraphrases are domain-specific and thus complement existing paraphrase databases.
Representations in the hidden layers of Deep Neural Networks (DNN) are often hard to interpret since it is difficult to project them into an interpretable domain. Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN) allow this projection, but existing explainability methods do not exploit this fact, i.e. do not focus their explanations on intermediate states. In this work, we present a novel method that traces and visualizes features that contribute to a classification decision in the visible and hidden layers of a GCN. Our method exposes hidden cross-layer dynamics in the input graph structure. We experimentally demonstrate that it yields meaningful layerwise explanations for a GCN sentence classifier.
Word embeddings continue to be of great use for NLP researchers and practitioners due to their training speed and easiness of use and distribution. Prior work has shown that the representation of those words can be improved by the use of semantic knowledge-bases. In this paper we propose a novel way of combining those knowledge-bases while the lexical information of co-occurrences of words remains. It is conceptually clear, as it consists in mapping both distributional and semantic information into a multi-graph and modifying existing node embeddings techniques to compute word representations. Our experiments show improved results compared to vanilla word embeddings, retrofitting and concatenation techniques using the same information, on a variety of data-sets of word similarities.
In this paper, we explore strategies to evaluate models for the task research paper novelty detection: Given all papers released at a given date, which of the papers discuss new ideas and influence future research? We find the novelty is not a singular concept, and thus inherently lacks of ground truth annotations with cross-annotator agreement, which is a major obstacle in evaluating these models. Test-of-time award is closest to such annotation, which can only be made retrospectively and is extremely scarce. We thus propose to compare and evaluate models using counterfactual simulations. First, we ask models if they can differentiate papers at time $t$ and counterfactual paper from future time $t+d$. Second, we ask models if they can predict test-of-time award at $t+d$. These are proxies that can be agreed by human annotators and easily augmented by correlated signals, using which evaluation can be done through four tasks: classification, ranking, correlation and feature selection. We show these proxy evaluation methods complement each other regarding error handling, coverage, interpretability, and scope, and thus altogether contribute to the observation of the relative strength of existing models.
The rising growth of fake news and misleading information through online media outlets demands an automatic method for detecting such news articles. Of the few limited works which differentiate between trusted vs other types of news article (satire, propaganda, hoax), none of them model sentence interactions within a document. We observe an interesting pattern in the way sentences interact with each other across different kind of news articles. To capture this kind of information for long news articles, we propose a graph neural network-based model which does away with the need of feature engineering for fine grained fake news classification. Through experiments, we show that our proposed method beats strong neural baselines and achieves state-of-the-art accuracy on existing datasets. Moreover, we establish the generalizability of our model by evaluating its performance in out-of-domain scenarios. Code is available at https://github.com/MysteryVaibhav/fake{\_}news{\_}semantics.
On a scientific concept hierarchy, a parent concept may have a few attributes, each of which has multiple values being a group of child concepts. We call these attributes facets: classification has a few facets such as application (e.g., face recognition), model (e.g., svm, knn), and metric (e.g., precision). In this work, we aim at building faceted concept hierarchies from scientific literature. Hierarchy construction methods heavily rely on hypernym detection, however, the faceted relations are parent-to-child links but the hypernym relation is a multi-hop, i.e., ancestor-to-descendent link with a specific facet {``}type-of{''}. We use information extraction techniques to find synonyms, sibling concepts, and ancestor-descendent relations from a data science corpus. And we propose a hierarchy growth algorithm to infer the parent-child links from the three types of relationships. It resolves conflicts by maintaining the acyclic structure of a hierarchy.
Semi-supervised learning is an efficient method to augment training data automatically from unlabeled data. Development of many natural language understanding (NLU) applications has a challenge where unlabeled data is relatively abundant while labeled data is rather limited. In this work, we propose transductive graph-based semi-supervised learning models as well as their inductive variants for NLU. We evaluate the approach{'}s applicability using publicly available NLU data and models. In order to find similar utterances and construct a graph, we use a paraphrase detection model. Results show that applying the inductive graph-based semi-supervised learning can improve the error rate of the NLU model by 5{\%}.
Semantic parsing is a fundamental problem in natural language understanding, as it involves the mapping of natural language to structured forms such as executable queries or logic-like knowledge representations. Existing deep learning approaches for semantic parsing have shown promise on a variety of benchmark data sets, particularly on text-to-SQL parsing. However, most text-to-SQL parsers do not generalize to unseen data sets in different domains. In this paper, we propose a new cross-domain learning scheme to perform text-to-SQL translation and demonstrate its use on Spider, a large-scale cross-domain text-to-SQL data set. We improve upon a state-of-the-art Spider model, SyntaxSQLNet, by constructing a graph of column names for all databases and using graph neural networks to compute their embeddings. The resulting embeddings offer better cross-domain representations and SQL queries, as evidenced by substantial improvement on the Spider data set compared to SyntaxSQLNet.
Reasoning over paths in large scale knowledge graphs is an important problem for many applications. In this paper we discuss a simple approach to automatically build and rank paths between a source and target entity pair with learned embeddings using a knowledge base completion model (KBC). We assembled a knowledge graph by mining the available biomedical scientific literature and extracted a set of high frequency paths to use for validation. We demonstrate that our method is able to effectively rank a list of known paths between a pair of entities and also come up with plausible paths that are not present in the knowledge graph. For a given entity pair we are able to reconstruct the highest ranking path 60{\%} of the time within the top 10 ranked paths and achieve 49{\%} mean average precision. Our approach is compositional since any KBC model that can produce vector representations of entities can be used.
Combining two graphs requires merging the nodes which are counterparts of each other. In this process errors occur, resulting in incorrect merging or incorrect failure to merge. We find a high prevalence of such errors when using AskNET, an algorithm for building Knowledge Graphs from text corpora. AskNET node matching method uses string similarity, which we propose to replace with vector embedding similarity. We explore graph-based and word-based embedding models and show an overall error reduction of from 56{\%} to 23.6{\%}, with a reduction of over a half in both types of incorrect node matching.
This paper describes DBee, a database to support the construction of data-intensive AI applications. DBee provides a unique data model which operates jointly over large-scale knowledge graphs (KGs) and embedding vector spaces (VSs). This model supports queries which exploit the semantic properties of both types of representations (KGs and VSs). Additionally, DBee aims to facilitate the construction of KGs and VSs, by providing a library of generators, which can be used to create, integrate and transform data into KGs and VSs.
We present a simple, rule-based method for extracting entity networks from the abstracts of scientific literature. By taking advantage of selected syntactic features of constituent parsing trees, our method automatically extracts and constructs graphs in which nodes represent text-based entities (in this case, noun phrases) and their relationships (in this case, verb phrases or preposition phrases). We use two benchmark datasets for evaluation and compare with previously presented results for these data. Our evaluation results show that the proposed method leads to accuracy rates that are comparable to or exceed the results achieved with state-of-the-art, learning-based methods in several cases.
Character-level translation has been proved to be able to achieve preferable translation quality without explicit segmentation, but training a character-level model needs a lot of hardware resources. In this paper, we introduced two character-level translation models which are mid-gated model and multi-attention model for Japanese-English translation. We showed that the mid-gated model achieved the better performance with respect to BLEU scores. We also showed that a relatively narrow beam of width 4 or 5 was sufficient for the mid-gated model. As for unknown words, we showed that the mid-gated model could somehow translate the one containing Katakana by coining out a close word. We also showed that the model managed to produce tolerable results for heavily noised sentences, even though the model was trained with the dataset without noise.
In the Japanese language different levels of honorific speech are used to convey respect, deference, humility, formality and social distance. In this paper, we present a method for controlling the level of formality of Japanese output in English-to-Japanese neural machine translation (NMT). By using heuristics to identify honorific verb forms, we classify Japanese sentences as being one of three levels of informal, polite, or formal speech in parallel text. The English source side is marked with a feature that identifies the level of honorific speech present in the Japanese target side. We use this parallel text to train an English-Japanese NMT model capable of producing Japanese translations in different honorific speech styles for the same English input sentence.
While the progress of machine translation of written text has come far in the past several years thanks to the increasing availability of parallel corpora and corpora-based training technologies, automatic translation of spoken text and dialogues remains challenging even for modern systems. In this paper, we aim to boost the machine translation quality of conversational texts by introducing a newly constructed Japanese-English business conversation parallel corpus. A detailed analysis of the corpus is provided along with challenging examples for automatic translation. We also experiment with adding the corpus in a machine translation training scenario and show how the resulting system benefits from its use.
With the widespread use of Machine Trans-lation (MT) techniques, attempt to minimizecommunication gap among people from di-verse linguistic backgrounds. We have par-ticipated in Workshop on Asian Transla-tion 2019 (WAT2019) multi-modal translationtask. There are three types of submissiontrack namely, multi-modal translation, Hindi-only image captioning and text-only transla-tion for English to Hindi translation. The mainchallenge is to provide a precise MT output.The multi-modal concept incorporates textualand visual features in the translation task. Inthis work, multi-modal translation track re-lies on pre-trained convolutional neural net-works (CNN) with Visual Geometry Grouphaving 19 layered (VGG19) to extract imagefeatures and attention-based Neural MachineTranslation (NMT) system for translation.The merge-model of recurrent neural network(RNN) and CNN is used for the Hindi-onlyimage captioning. The text-only translationtrack is based on the transformer model of theNMT system. The official results evaluated atWAT2019 translation task, which shows thatour multi-modal NMT system achieved Bilin-gual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) score20.37, Rank-based Intuitive Bilingual Eval-uation Score (RIBES) 0.642838, Adequacy-Fluency Metrics (AMFM) score 0.668260 forchallenge test data and BLEU score 40.55,RIBES 0.760080, AMFM score 0.770860 forevaluation test data in English to Hindi multi-modal translation respectively.
This paper presents the NICT{'}s supervised and unsupervised machine translation systems for the WAT2019 Myanmar-English and Khmer-English translation tasks. For all the translation directions, we built state-of-the-art supervised neural (NMT) and statistical (SMT) machine translation systems, using monolingual data cleaned and normalized. Our combination of NMT and SMT performed among the best systems for the four translation directions. We also investigated the feasibility of unsupervised machine translation for low-resource and distant language pairs and confirmed observations of previous work showing that unsupervised MT is still largely unable to deal with them.
In this paper we describe our submissions to WAT 2019 for the following tasks: English{--}Tamil translation and Russian{--}Japanese translation. Our team,{``}NICT-5{''}, focused on multilingual domain adaptation and back-translation for Russian{--}Japanese translation and on simple fine-tuning for English{--}Tamil translation . We noted that multi-stage fine tuning is essential in leveraging the power of multilingualism for an extremely low-resource language like Russian{--}Japanese. Furthermore, we can improve the performance of such a low-resource language pair by exploiting a small but in-domain monolingual corpus via back-translation. We managed to obtain second rank in both tasks for all translation directions.
In this paper, we describe the neural machine translation (NMT) system submitted by the Kangwon National University and HYUNDAI (KNU-HYUNDAI) team to the translation tasks of the 6th workshop on Asian Translation (WAT 2019). We participated in all tasks of ASPEC and JPC2, which included those of Chinese-Japanese, English-Japanese, and Korean-{\textgreater}Japanese. We submitted our transformer-based NMT system with built using the following methods: a) relative positioning method for pairwise relationships between the input elements, b) back-translation and multi-source translation for data augmentation, c) right-to-left (r2l)-reranking model robust against error propagation in autoregressive architectures such as decoders, and d) checkpoint ensemble models, which selected the top three models with the best validation bilingual evaluation understudy (BLEU) . We have reported the translation results on the two aforementioned tasks. We performed well in both the tasks and were ranked first in terms of the BLEU scores in all the JPC2 subtasks we participated in.
This paper presents the NICT{'}s participation (team ID: NICT) in the 6th Workshop on Asian Translation (WAT-2019) shared translation task, specifically Myanmar (Burmese) - English task in both translation directions. We built neural machine translation (NMT) systems for these tasks. Our NMT systems were trained with language model pretraining. Back-translation technology is adopted to NMT. Our NMT systems rank the third in English-to-Myanmar and the second in Myanmar-to-English according to BLEU score.
This paper represents UCSMNLP{'}s submission to the WAT 2019 Translation Tasks focusing on the Myanmar-English translation. Phrase based statistical machine translation (PBSMT) system is built by using other resources: Name Entity Recognition (NER) corpus and bilingual dictionary which is created by Google Translate (GT). This system is also adopted with listwise reranking process in order to improve the quality of translation and tuning is done by changing initial distortion weight. The experimental results show that PBSMT using other resources with initial distortion weight (0.4) and listwise reranking function outperforms the baseline system.
This paper describes NHK and NHK Engineering System (NHK-ES){'}s submission to the newswire translation tasks of WAT 2019 in both directions of Japanese→English and English→Japanese. In addition to the JIJI Corpus that was officially provided by the task organizer, we developed a corpus of 0.22M sentence pairs by manually, translating Japanese news sentences into English content- equivalently. The content-equivalent corpus was effective for improving translation quality, and our systems achieved the best human evaluation scores in the newswire translation tasks at WAT 2019.
This paper describes Facebook AI{'}s submission to the WAT 2019 Myanmar-English translation task. Our baseline systems are BPE-based transformer models. We explore methods to leverage monolingual data to improve generalization, including self-training, back-translation and their combination. We further improve results by using noisy channel re-ranking and ensembling. We demonstrate that these techniques can significantly improve not only a system trained with additional monolingual data, but even the baseline system trained exclusively on the provided small parallel dataset. Our system ranks first in both directions according to human evaluation and BLEU, with a gain of over 8 BLEU points above the second best system.
In this paper, we report our submission systems (geoduck) to the Timely Disclosure task on the 6th Workshop on Asian Translation (WAT) (Nakazawa et al., 2019). Our system employs a combined approach of translation memory and Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models, where we can select final translation outputs from either a translation memory or an NMT system, when the similarity score of a test source sentence exceeds the predefined threshold. We observed that this combination approach significantly improves the translation performance on the Timely Disclosure corpus, as compared to a standalone NMT system. We also conducted source-based direct assessment on the final output, and we discuss the comparison between human references and each system{'}s output.
This paper describes the Neural Machine Translation systems used by IIIT Hyderabad (CVIT-MT) for the translation tasks part of WAT-2019. We participated in tasks pertaining to Indian languages and submitted results for English-Hindi, Hindi-English, English-Tamil and Tamil-English language pairs. We employ Transformer architecture experimenting with multilingual models and methods for low-resource languages.
This paper describes the NICT-2 neural machine translation system at the 6th Workshop on Asian Translation. This system employs the standard Transformer model but features the following two characteristics. One is the long warm-up strategy, which performs a longer warm-up of the learning rate at the start of the training than conventional approaches. Another is that the system introduces self-training approaches based on multiple back-translations generated by sampling. We participated in three tasks{---}ASPEC.en-ja, ASPEC.ja-en, and TDDC.ja-en{---}using this system.
This is the second time for SRCB to participate in WAT. This paper describes the neural machine translation systems for the shared translation tasks of WAT 2019. We participated in ASPEC tasks and submitted results on English-Japanese, Japanese-English, Chinese-Japanese, and Japanese-Chinese four language pairs. We employed the Transformer model as the baseline and experimented relative position representation, data augmentation, deep layer model, ensemble. Experiments show that all these methods can yield substantial improvements.
This paper describes our MT systems{'} participation in the of WAT 2019. We participated in the (i) Patent, (ii) Timely Disclosure, (iii) Newswire and (iv) Mixed-domain tasks. Our main focus is to explore how similar Transformer models perform on various tasks. We observed that for tasks with smaller datasets, our best model setup are shallower models with lesser number of attention heads. We investigated practical issues in NMT that often appear in production settings, such as coping with multilinguality and simplifying pre- and post-processing pipeline in deployment.
In this paper, we describe our Neural Machine Translation (NMT) systems for the WAT 2019 translation tasks we focus on. This year we participate in scientific paper tasks and focus on the language pair between English and Japanese. We use Transformer model through our work in this paper to explore and experience the powerful of the Transformer architecture relying on self-attention mechanism. We use different NMT toolkit/library as the implementation of training the Transformer model. For word segmentation, we use different subword segmentation strategies while using different toolkit/library. We not only give the translation accuracy obtained based on absolute position encodings that introduced in the Transformer model, but also report the the improvements in translation accuracy while replacing absolute position encodings with relative position representations. We also ensemble several independent trained Transformer models to further improve the translation accuracy.
This paper describes the Machine Translation system for Tamil-English Indic Task organized at WAT 2019. We use Transformer- based architecture for Neural Machine Translation.
This paper describes the Idiap submission to WAT 2019 for the English-Hindi Multi-Modal Translation Task. We have used the state-of-the-art Transformer model and utilized the IITB English-Hindi parallel corpus as an additional data source. Among the different tracks of the multi-modal task, we have participated in the {``}Text-Only{''} track for the evaluation and challenge test sets. Our submission tops in its track among the competitors in terms of both automatic and manual evaluation. Based on automatic scores, our text-only submission also outperforms systems that consider visual information in the {``}multi-modal translation{''} task.
This paper describes Systran{'}s submissions to WAT 2019 Russian-Japanese News Commentary task. A challenging translation task due to the extremely low resources available and the distance of the language pair. We have used the neural Transformer architecture learned over the provided resources and we carried out synthetic data generation experiments which aim at alleviating the data scarcity problem. Results indicate the suitability of the data augmentation experiments, enabling our systems to rank first according to automatic evaluations.
This paper describes the UCSYNLP-Lab submission to WAT 2019 for Myanmar-English translation tasks in both direction. We have used the neural machine translation systems with attention model and utilized the UCSY-corpus and ALT corpus. In NMT with attention model, we use the word segmentation level as well as syllable segmentation level. Especially, we made the UCSY-corpus to be cleaned in WAT 2019. Therefore, the UCSY corpus for WAT 2019 is not identical to those used in WAT 2018. Experiments show that the translation systems can produce the substantial improvements.
Sentiment ambiguous lexicons refer to words where their polarity depends strongly on con- text. As such, when the context is absent, their translations or their embedded sentence ends up (incorrectly) being dependent on the training data. While neural machine translation (NMT) has achieved great progress in recent years, most systems aim to produce one single correct translation for a given source sentence. We investigate the translation variation in two sentiment scenarios. We perform experiments to study the preservation of sentiment during translation with three different methods that we propose. We conducted tests with both sentiment and non-sentiment bearing contexts to examine the effectiveness of our methods. We show that NMT can generate both positive- and negative-valent translations of a source sentence, based on a given input sentiment label. Empirical evaluations show that our valence-sensitive embedding (VSE) method significantly outperforms a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) baseline, both in terms of BLEU score and ambiguous word translation accuracy in test, given non-sentiment bearing contexts.
Among the six challenges of neural machine translation (NMT) coined by (Koehn and Knowles, 2017), rare-word problem is considered the most severe one, especially in translation of low-resource languages. In this paper, we propose three solutions to address the rare words in neural machine translation systems. First, we enhance source context to predict the target words by connecting directly the source embeddings to the output of the attention component in NMT. Second, we propose an algorithm to learn morphology of unknown words for English in supervised way in order to minimize the adverse effect of rare-word problem. Finally, we exploit synonymous relation from the WordNet to overcome out-of-vocabulary (OOV) problem of NMT. We evaluate our approaches on two low-resource language pairs: English-Vietnamese and Japanese-Vietnamese. In our experiments, we have achieved significant improvements of up to roughly +1.0 BLEU points in both language pairs.
In this work, we present several deep learning models for the automatic diacritization of Arabic text. Our models are built using two main approaches, viz. Feed-Forward Neural Network (FFNN) and Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), with several enhancements such as 100-hot encoding, embeddings, Conditional Random Field (CRF) and Block-Normalized Gradient (BNG). The models are tested on the only freely available benchmark dataset and the results show that our models are either better or on par with other models, which require language-dependent post-processing steps, unlike ours. Moreover, we show that diacritics in Arabic can be used to enhance the models of NLP tasks such as Machine Translation (MT) by proposing the Translation over Diacritization (ToD) approach.
In order to automate banking processes (e.g. payments, money transfers, foreign trade), we need to extract banking transactions from different types of mediums such as faxes, e-mails, and scanners. Banking orders may be considered as complex documents since they contain quite complex relations compared to traditional datasets used in relation extraction research. In this paper, we present our method to extract intersentential, nested and complex relations from banking orders, and introduce a relation extraction method based on maximal clique factorization technique. We demonstrate 11{\%} error reduction over previous methods.
Extraction of financial and economic events from text has previously been done mostly using rule-based methods, with more recent works employing machine learning techniques. This work is in line with this latter approach, leveraging relevant Wikipedia sections to extract weak labels for sentences describing economic events. Whereas previous weakly supervised approaches required a knowledge-base of such events, or corresponding financial figures, our approach requires no such additional data, and can be employed to extract economic events related to companies which are not even mentioned in the training data.
We examine the affective content of central bank press statements using emotion analysis. Our focus is on two major international players, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the US Federal Reserve Bank (Fed), covering a time span from 1998 through 2019. We reveal characteristic patterns in the emotional dimensions of valence, arousal, and dominance and find{---}despite the commonly established attitude that emotional wording in central bank communication should be avoided{---}a correlation between the state of the economy and particularly the dominance dimension in the press releases under scrutiny and, overall, an impact of the president in office.
In this paper, we show deep learning models can be used to forecast firm material event sequences based on the contents in the company{'}s 8-K Current Reports. Specifically, we exploit state-of-the-art neural architectures, including sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) architecture and attention mechanisms, in the model. Our 8K-powered deep learning model demonstrates promising performance in forecasting firm future event sequences. The model is poised to benefit various stakeholders, including management and investors, by facilitating risk management and decision making.
Considering event structure information has proven helpful in text-based stock movement prediction. However, existing works mainly adopt the coarse-grained events, which loses the specific semantic information of diverse event types. In this work, we propose to incorporate the fine-grained events in stock movement prediction. Firstly, we propose a professional finance event dictionary built by domain experts and use it to extract fine-grained events automatically from finance news. Then we design a neural model to combine finance news with fine-grained event structure and stock trade data to predict the stock movement. Besides, in order to improve the generalizability of the proposed method, we design an advanced model that uses the extracted fine-grained events as the distant supervised label to train a multi-task framework of event extraction and stock prediction. The experimental results show that our method outperforms all the baselines and has good generalizability.
Incorporating related text information has proven successful in stock market prediction. However, it is a huge challenge to utilize texts in the enormous forex (foreign currency exchange) market because the associated texts are too redundant. In this work, we propose a BERT-based Hierarchical Aggregation Model to summarize a large amount of finance news to predict forex movement. We firstly group news from different aspects: time, topic and category. Then we extract the most crucial news in each group by the SOTA extractive summarization method. Finally, we conduct interaction between the news and the trade data with attention to predict the forex movement. The experimental results show that the category based method performs best among three grouping methods and outperforms all the baselines. Besides, we study the influence of essential news attributes (category and region) by statistical analysis and summarize the influence patterns for different currency pairs.
Governmental institutions are employing artificial intelligence techniques to deal with their specific problems and exploit their huge amounts of both structured and unstructured information. In particular, natural language processing and machine learning techniques are being used to process citizen feedback. In this paper, we report on the use of such techniques for analyzing and classifying complaints, in the context of the Portuguese Economic and Food Safety Authority. Grounded in its operational process, we address three different classification problems: target economic activity, implied infraction severity level, and institutional competence. We show promising results obtained using feature-based approaches and traditional classifiers, with accuracy scores above 70{\%}, and analyze the shortcomings of our current results and avenues for further improvement, taking into account the intended use of our classifiers in helping human officers to cope with thousands of yearly complaints.
With conversational agents or chatbots making up in quantity of replies rather than quality, the need to identify user intent has become a main concern to improve these agents. Dialog act (DA) classification tackles this concern, and while existing studies have already addressed DA classification in general contexts, no training corpora in the context of e-commerce is available to the public. This research addressed the said insufficiency by building a text-based corpus of 7,265 posts from the question and answer section of products on Lazada Philippines. The SWBD-DAMSL tagset for DA classification was modified to 28 tags fitting the categories applicable to e-commerce conversations. The posts were annotated manually by three (3) human annotators and preprocessing techniques decreased the vocabulary size from 6,340 to 1,134. After analysis, the corpus was composed dominantly of single-label posts, with 34{\%} of the corpus having multiple intent tags. The annotated corpus allowed insights toward the structure of posts created with single to multiple intents.
Widespread Chinese social media applications such as Weibo are widely known for monitoring and deleting posts to conform to Chinese government requirements. In this paper, we focus on analyzing a dataset of censored and uncensored posts in Weibo. Despite previous work that only considers text content of posts, we take a multi-modal approach that takes into account both text and image content. We categorize this dataset into 14 categories that have the potential to be censored on Weibo, and seek to quantify censorship by topic. Specifically, we investigate how different factors interact to affect censorship. We also investigate how consistently and how quickly different topics are censored. To this end, we have assembled an image dataset with 18,966 images, as well as a text dataset with 994 posts from 14 categories. We then utilized deep learning, CNN localization, and NLP techniques to analyze the target dataset and extract categories, for further analysis to better understand censorship mechanisms in Weibo. We found that sentiment is the only indicator of censorship that is consistent across the variety of topics we identified. Our finding matches with recently leaked logs from Sina Weibo. We also discovered that most categories like those related to anti-government actions (e.g. protest) or categories related to politicians (e.g. Xi Jinping) are often censored, whereas some categories such as crisis-related categories (e.g. rainstorm) are less frequently censored. We also found that censored posts across all categories are deleted in three hours on average.
Abusive text is a serious problem in social media and causes many issues among users as the number of users and the content volume increase. There are several attempts for detecting or preventing abusive text effectively. One simple yet effective approach is to use an abusive lexicon and determine the existence of an abusive word in text. This approach works well even when an abusive word is obfuscated. On the other hand, it is still a challenging problem to determine abusiveness in a text having no explicit abusive words. Especially, it is hard to identify sarcasm or offensiveness in context without any abusive words. We tackle this problem using an ensemble deep learning model. Our model consists of two parts of extracting local features and global features, which are crucial for identifying implicit abusiveness in context level. We evaluate our model using three benchmark data. Our model outperforms all the previous models for detecting abusiveness in a text data without abusive words. Furthermore, we combine our model and an abusive lexicon method. The experimental results show that our model has at least 4{\%} better performance compared with the previous approaches for identifying text abusiveness in case of with/without abusive words.
Social media has reportedly been (ab)used by Russian troll farms to promote political agendas. Specifically, state-affiliated actors disguise themselves as native citizens of the United States to promote discord and promote their political motives. Therefore, developing methods to automatically detect Russian trolls can ensure fair elections and possibly reduce political extremism by stopping trolls that produce discord. While data exists for some troll organizations (e.g., Internet Research Agency), it is challenging to collect ground-truth accounts for new troll farms in a timely fashion. In this paper, we study the impact the number of labeled troll accounts has on detection performance. We analyze the use of self-supervision with less than 100 troll accounts as training data. We improve classification performance by nearly 4{\%} F1. Furthermore, in combination with self-supervision, we also explore novel features for troll detection grounded in stylometry. Intuitively, we assume that the writing style is consistent across troll accounts because a single troll organization employee may control multiple user accounts. Overall, we improve on models based on words features by {\textasciitilde}9{\%} F1.
The blurry line between nefarious fake news and protected-speech satire has been a notorious struggle for social media platforms. Further to the efforts of reducing exposure to misinformation on social media, purveyors of fake news have begun to masquerade as satire sites to avoid being demoted. In this work, we address the challenge of automatically classifying fake news versus satire. Previous work have studied whether fake news and satire can be distinguished based on language differences. Contrary to fake news, satire stories are usually humorous and carry some political or social message. We hypothesize that these nuances could be identified using semantic and linguistic cues. Consequently, we train a machine learning method using semantic representation, with a state-of-the-art contextual language model, and with linguistic features based on textual coherence metrics. Empirical evaluation attests to the merits of our approach compared to the language-based baseline and sheds light on the nuances between fake news and satire. As avenues for future work, we consider studying additional linguistic features related to the humor aspect, and enriching the data with current news events, to help identify a political or social message.
Calls to action on social media are known to be effective means of mobilization in social movements, and a frequent target of censorship. We investigate the possibility of their automatic detection and their potential for predicting real-world protest events, on historical data of Bolotnaya protests in Russia (2011-2013). We find that political calls to action can be annotated and detected with relatively high accuracy, and that in our sample their volume has a moderate positive correlation with rally attendance.
Digital media enables not only fast sharing of information, but also disinformation. One prominent case of an event leading to circulation of disinformation on social media is the MH17 plane crash. Studies analysing the spread of information about this event on Twitter have focused on small, manually annotated datasets, or used proxys for data annotation. In this work, we examine to what extent text classifiers can be used to label data for subsequent content analysis, in particular we focus on predicting pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian Twitter content related to the MH17 plane crash. Even though we find that a neural classifier improves over a hashtag based baseline, labeling pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian content with high precision remains a challenging problem. We provide an error analysis underlining the difficulty of the task and identify factors that might help improve classification in future work. Finally, we show how the classifier can facilitate the annotation task for human annotators.
Considering diverse aspects of an argumentative issue is an essential step for mitigating a biased opinion and making reasonable decisions. A related generation model can produce flexible results that cover a wide range of topics, compared to the retrieval-based method that may show unstable performance for unseen data. In this paper, we study the problem of generating sentential arguments from multiple perspectives, and propose a neural method to address this problem. Our model, ArgDiver (Argument generation model from diverse perspectives), in a way a conversational system, successfully generates high-quality sentential arguments. At the same time, the automatically generated arguments by our model show a higher diversity than those generated by any other baseline models. We believe that our work provides evidence for the potential of a good generation model in providing diverse perspectives on a controversial topic.
Social media platforms have been used for information and news gathering, and they are very valuable in many applications. However, they also lead to the spreading of rumors and fake news. Many efforts have been taken to detect and debunk rumors on social media by analyzing their content and social context using machine learning techniques. This paper gives an overview of the recent studies in the rumor detection field. It provides a comprehensive list of datasets used for rumor detection, and reviews the important studies based on what types of information they exploit and the approaches they take. And more importantly, we also present several new directions for future research.
Many discussions on online platforms suffer from users offending others by using abusive terminology, threatening each other, or being sarcastic. Since an automatic detection of abusive language can support human moderators of online discussion platforms, detecting abusiveness has recently received increased attention. However, the existing approaches simply train one classifier for the whole variety of abusiveness. In contrast, our approach is to distinguish explicitly abusive cases from the more {``}shadowed{''} ones. By dynamically extending a lexicon of abusive terms (e.g., including new obfuscations of abusive terms), our approach can support a moderator with explicit unraveled explanations for why something was flagged as abusive: due to known explicitly abusive terms, due to newly detected (obfuscated) terms, or due to shadowed cases.
This paper presents the winning solution of the Fragment Level Classification (FLC) task in the Fine Grained Propaganda Detection competition at the NLP4IF{'}19 workshop. The goal of the FLC task is to detect and classify textual segments that correspond to one of the 18 given propaganda techniques in a news articles dataset. The main idea of our solution is to perform word-level classification using fine-tuned BERT, a popular pre-trained language model. Besides presenting the model and its evaluation results, we also investigate the attention heads in the model, which provide insights into what the model learns, as well as aspects for potential improvements.
On the NLP4IF 2019 sentence level propaganda classification task, we used a BERT language model that was pre-trained on Wikipedia and BookCorpus as team ltuorp ranking {\#}1 of 26. It uses deep learning in the form of an attention transformer. We substituted the final layer of the neural network to a linear real valued output neuron from a layer of softmaxes. The backpropagation trained the entire neural network and not just the last layer. Training took 3 epochs and on our computation resources this took approximately one day. The pre-trained model consisted of uncased words and there were 12-layers, 768-hidden neurons with 12-heads for a total of 110 million parameters. The articles used in the training data promote divisive language similar to state-actor-funded influence operations on social media. Twitter shows state-sponsored examples designed to maximize division occurring across political lines, ranging from {``}Obama calls me a clinger, Hillary calls me deplorable, ... and Trump calls me an American{''} oriented to the political right, to Russian propaganda featuring {``}Black Lives Matter{''} material with suggestions of institutional racism in US police forces oriented to the political left. We hope that raising awareness through our work will reduce the polarizing dialogue for the betterment of nations.
The internet and the high use of social media have enabled the modern-day journalism to publish, share and spread news that is difficult to distinguish if it is true or fake. Defining {``}fake news{''} is not well established yet, however, it can be categorized under several labels: false, biased, or framed to mislead the readers that are characterized as propaganda. Digital content production technologies with logical fallacies and emotional language can be used as propaganda techniques to gain more readers or mislead the audience. Recently, several researchers have proposed deep learning (DL) models to address this issue. This research paper provides an ensemble deep learning model using BiLSTM, XGBoost, and BERT to detect propaganda. The proposed model has been applied on the dataset provided by the challenge NLP4IF 2019, Task 1 Sentence Level Classification (SLC) and it shows a significant performance over the baseline model.
Various propaganda techniques are used to manipulate peoples perspectives in order to foster a predetermined agenda such as by the use of logical fallacies or appealing to the emotions of the audience. In this paper, we develop a Logistic Regression-based tool that automatically classifies whether a sentence is propagandistic or not. We utilize features like TF-IDF, BERT vector, sentence length, readability grade level, emotion feature, LIWC feature and emphatic content feature to help us differentiate these two categories. The linguistic and semantic features combination results in 66.16{\%} of F1 score, which outperforms the baseline hugely.
The automatic identification of propaganda has gained significance in recent years due to technological and social changes in the way news is generated and consumed. That this task can be addressed effectively using BERT, a powerful new architecture which can be fine-tuned for text classification tasks, is not surprising. However, propaganda detection, like other tasks that deal with news documents and other forms of decontextualized social communication (e.g. sentiment analysis), inherently deals with data whose categories are simultaneously imbalanced and dissimilar. We show that BERT, while capable of handling imbalanced classes with no additional data augmentation, does not generalise well when the training and test data are sufficiently dissimilar (as is often the case with news sources, whose topics evolve over time). We show how to address this problem by providing a statistical measure of similarity between datasets and a method of incorporating cost-weighting into BERT when the training and test sets are dissimilar. We test these methods on the Propaganda Techniques Corpus (PTC) and achieve the second highest score on sentence-level propaganda classification.
In this paper, we describe our team{'}s effort on the fine-grained propaganda detection on sentence level classification (SLC) task of NLP4IF 2019 workshop co-located with the EMNLP-IJCNLP 2019 conference. Our top performing system results come from applying ensemble average on three pretrained models to make their predictions. The first two models use the uncased and cased versions of Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) (Devlin et al., 2018) while the third model uses Universal Sentence Encoder (USE) (Cer et al. 2018). Out of 26 participating teams, our system is ranked in the first place with 68.8312 F1-score on the development dataset and in the sixth place with 61.3870 F1-score on the testing dataset.
We present ABSApp, a portable system for weakly-supervised aspect-based sentiment ex- traction. The system is interpretable and user friendly and does not require labeled training data, hence can be rapidly and cost-effectively used across different domains in applied setups. The system flow includes three stages: First, it generates domain-specific aspect and opinion lexicons based on an unlabeled dataset; second, it enables the user to view and edit those lexicons (weak supervision); and finally, it enables the user to select an unlabeled target dataset from the same domain, classify it, and generate an aspect-based sentiment report. ABSApp has been successfully used in a number of real-life use cases, among them movie review analysis and convention impact analysis.
Neural NLP models are increasingly accurate but are imperfect and opaque{---}they break in counterintuitive ways and leave end users puzzled at their behavior. Model interpretation methods ameliorate this opacity by providing explanations for specific model predictions. Unfortunately, existing interpretation codebases make it difficult to apply these methods to new models and tasks, which hinders adoption for practitioners and burdens interpretability researchers. We introduce AllenNLP Interpret, a flexible framework for interpreting NLP models. The toolkit provides interpretation primitives (e.g., input gradients) for any AllenNLP model and task, a suite of built-in interpretation methods, and a library of front-end visualization components. We demonstrate the toolkit{'}s flexibility and utility by implementing live demos for five interpretation methods (e.g., saliency maps and adversarial attacks) on a variety of models and tasks (e.g., masked language modeling using BERT and reading comprehension using BiDAF). These demos, alongside our code and tutorials, are available at https://allennlp.org/interpret.
In this paper, we describe ALTER, an auxiliary text rewriting tool that facilitates the rewriting process for natural language generation tasks, such as paraphrasing, text simplification, fairness-aware text rewriting, and text style transfer. Our tool is characterized by two features, i) recording of word-level revision histories and ii) flexible auxiliary edit support and feedback to annotators. The text rewriting assist and traceable rewriting history are potentially beneficial to the future research of natural language generation.
We present Birch, a system that applies BERT to document retrieval via integration with the open-source Anserini information retrieval toolkit to demonstrate end-to-end search over large document collections. Birch implements simple ranking models that achieve state-of-the-art effectiveness on standard TREC newswire and social media test collections. This demonstration focuses on technical challenges in the integration of NLP and IR capabilities, along with the design rationale behind our approach to tightly-coupled integration between Python (to support neural networks) and the Java Virtual Machine (to support document retrieval using the open-source Lucene search library). We demonstrate integration of Birch with an existing search interface as well as interactive notebooks that highlight its capabilities in an easy-to-understand manner.
The Knowledge Graph Induction Service (KGIS) is an end-to-end knowledge induction system. One of its main capabilities is to automatically induce taxonomies from input documents using a hybrid approach that takes advantage of linguistic patterns, semantic web and neural networks. KGIS allows the user to semi-automatically curate and expand the induced taxonomy through a component called Smart SpreadSheet by exploiting distributional semantics. In this paper, we describe these taxonomy induction and expansion features of KGIS. A screencast video demonstrating the system is available in https://ibm.box.com/v/emnlp-2019-demo .
This paper introduces a novel orchestration framework, called CFO (Computation Flow Orchestrator), for building, experimenting with, and deploying interactive NLP (Natural Language Processing) and IR (Information Retrieval) systems to production environments. We then demonstrate a question answering system built using this framework which incorporates state-of-the-art BERT based MRC (Machine Reading Com- prehension) with IR components to enable end-to-end answer retrieval. Results from the demo system are shown to be high quality in both academic and industry domain specific settings. Finally, we discuss best practices when (pre-)training BERT based MRC models for production systems. Screencast links: - Short video ({\textless} 3 min): http: //ibm.biz/gaama{\_}demo - Supplementary long video ({\textless} 13 min): http://ibm.biz/gaama{\_}cfo{\_}demo
Language model is a vital component in modern automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. Since {``}one-size-fits-all{''} language model works suboptimally for conversational speeches, language model adaptation (LMA) is considered as a promising solution for solving this problem. In order to compare the state-of-the-art LMA techniques and systematically demonstrate their effect in conversational speech recognition, we develop a novel toolkit named Chameleon, which includes the state-of-the-art cache-based and topic-based LMA techniques. This demonstration does not only vividly visualize underlying working mechanisms of a variety of the state-of-the-art LMA models but also provide an interface for the user to customize the hyperparameters of them. With this demonstration, the audience can experience the effect of LMA in an interactive and real-time fashion. We wish this demonstration would inspire more research on better language model techniques for ASR.
An acrostic is a form of writing that the first token of each line (or other recurring features in the text) forms a meaningful sequence. In this paper we present a generalized acrostic generation system that can hide certain message in a flexible pattern specified by the users. Different from previous works that focus on rule-based solutions, here we adopt a neural- based sequence-to-sequence model to achieve this goal. Besides acrostic, users are also allowed to specify the rhyme and length of the output sequences. Based on our knowledge, this is the first neural-based natural language generation system that demonstrates the capability of performing micro-level control over output sentences.
We introduce EASSE, a Python package aiming to facilitate and standardise automatic evaluation and comparison of Sentence Simplification (SS) systems. EASSE provides a single access point to a broad range of evaluation resources: standard automatic metrics for assessing SS outputs (e.g. SARI), word-level accuracy scores for certain simplification transformations, reference-independent quality estimation features (e.g. compression ratio), and standard test data for SS evaluation (e.g. TurkCorpus). Finally, EASSE generates easy-to-visualise reports on the various metrics and features above and on how a particular SS output fares against reference simplifications. Through experiments, we show that these functionalities allow for better comparison and understanding of the performance of SS systems.
There is renewed interest in simulating language emergence among deep neural agents that communicate to jointly solve a task, spurred by the practical aim to develop language-enabled interactive AIs, as well as by theoretical questions about the evolution of human language. However, optimizing deep architectures connected by a discrete communication channel (such as that in which language emerges) is technically challenging. We introduce EGG, a toolkit that greatly simplifies the implementation of emergent-language communication games. EGG{'}s modular design provides a set of building blocks that the user can combine to create new games, easily navigating the optimization and architecture space. We hope that the tool will lower the technical barrier, and encourage researchers from various backgrounds to do original work in this exciting area.
Large vocabulary domain-agnostic Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems often mistranscribe domain-specific words and phrases. Since these generic ASR systems are the first component of most voice assistants in production, building Natural Language Understanding (NLU) systems that are robust to these errors can be a challenging task. In this paper, we focus on handling ASR errors in named entities, specifically person names, for a voice-based collaboration assistant. We demonstrate an effective method for resolving person names that are mistranscribed by black-box ASR systems, using character and phoneme-based information retrieval techniques and contextual information, which improves accuracy by 40.8{\%} on our production system. We provide a live interactive demo to further illustrate the nuances of this problem and the effectiveness of our solution.
Semantic parsing aims to map natural language utterances into structured meaning representations. We present a modular platform, EUSP (Easy-to-Use Semantic Parsing PlatForm), that facilitates developers to build semantic parser from scratch. Instead of requiring a large amount of training data or complex grammar knowledge, in our platform developers can build grammar-based semantic parser or neural-based semantic parser through configure files which specify the modules and components that compose semantic parsing system. A high quality grammar-based semantic parsing system only requires domain lexicons rather than costly training data for a semantic parser. Furthermore, we provide a browser-based method to generate the semantic parsing system to minimize the difficulty of development. Experimental results show that the neural-based semantic parser system achieves competitive performance on semantic parsing task, and grammar-based semantic parsers significantly improve the performance of a business search engine.
Our proposed system FAMULUS helps students learn to diagnose based on automatic feedback in virtual patient simulations, and it supports instructors in labeling training data. Diagnosing is an exceptionally difficult skill to obtain but vital for many different professions (e.g., medical doctors, teachers). Previous case simulation systems are limited to multiple-choice questions and thus cannot give constructive individualized feedback on a student{'}s diagnostic reasoning process. Given initially only limited data, we leverage a (replaceable) NLP model to both support experts in their further data annotation with automatic suggestions, and we provide automatic feedback for students. We argue that because the central model consistently improves, our interactive approach encourages both students and instructors to recurrently use the tool, and thus accelerate the speed of data creation and annotation. We show results from two user studies on diagnostic reasoning in medicine and teacher education and outline how our system can be extended to further use cases.
Gunrock is the winner of the 2018 Amazon Alexa Prize, as evaluated by coherence and engagement from both real users and Amazon-selected expert conversationalists. We focus on understanding complex sentences and having in-depth conversations in open domains. In this paper, we introduce some innovative system designs and related validation analysis. Overall, we found that users produce longer sentences to Gunrock, which are directly related to users{'} engagement (e.g., ratings, number of turns). Additionally, users{'} backstory queries about Gunrock are positively correlated to user satisfaction. Finally, we found dialog flows that interleave facts and personal opinions and stories lead to better user satisfaction.
Exploration and analysis of potential data sources is a significant challenge in the application of NLP techniques to novel information domains. We describe HARE, a system for highlighting relevant information in document collections to support ranking and triage, which provides tools for post-processing and qualitative analysis for model development and tuning. We apply HARE to the use case of narrative descriptions of mobility information in clinical data, and demonstrate its utility in comparing candidate embedding features. We provide a web-based interface for annotation visualization and document ranking, with a modular backend to support interoperability with existing annotation tools. Our system is available online at https://github.com/OSU-slatelab/HARE.
Used for simple commands recognition on devices from smart speakers to mobile phones, keyword spotting systems are everywhere. Ubiquitous as well are web applications, which have grown in popularity and complexity over the last decade. However, despite their obvious advantages in natural language interaction, voice-enabled web applications are still few and far between. We attempt to bridge this gap with Honkling, a novel, JavaScript-based keyword spotting system. Purely client-side and cross-device compatible, Honkling can be deployed directly on user devices. Our in-browser implementation enables seamless personalization, which can greatly improve model quality; in the presence of underrepresented, non-American user accents, we can achieve up to an absolute 10{\%} increase in accuracy in the personalized model with only a few examples.
Legal Tech is developed to help people with legal services and solve legal problems via machines. To achieve this, one of the key requirements for machines is to utilize legal knowledge and comprehend legal context. This can be fulfilled by natural language processing (NLP) techniques, for instance, text representation, text categorization, question answering (QA) and natural language inference, etc. To this end, we introduce a freely available Chinese Legal Tech system (IFlyLegal) that benefits from multiple NLP tasks. It is an integrated system that performs legal consulting, multi-way law searching, and legal document analysis by exploiting techniques such as deep contextual representations and various attention mechanisms. To our knowledge, IFlyLegal is the first Chinese legal system that employs up-to-date NLP techniques and caters for needs of different user groups, such as lawyers, judges, procurators, and clients. Since Jan, 2019, we have gathered 2,349 users and 28,238 page views (till June, 23, 2019).
In this paper, we demonstrate an Interactive Machine Translation interface, that assists human translators with on-the-fly hints and suggestions. This makes the end-to-end translation process faster, more efficient and creates high-quality translations. We augment the OpenNMT backend with a mechanism to accept the user input and generate conditioned translations.
We present Joey NMT, a minimalist neural machine translation toolkit based on PyTorch that is specifically designed for novices. Joey NMT provides many popular NMT features in a small and simple code base, so that novices can easily and quickly learn to use it and adapt it to their needs. Despite its focus on simplicity, Joey NMT supports classic architectures (RNNs, transformers), fast beam search, weight tying, and more, and achieves performance comparable to more complex toolkits on standard benchmarks. We evaluate the accessibility of our toolkit in a user study where novices with general knowledge about Pytorch and NMT and experts work through a self-contained Joey NMT tutorial, showing that novices perform almost as well as experts in a subsequent code quiz. Joey NMT is available at \url{https://github.com/joeynmt/joeynmt}.
Automatically identifying rumours in social media and assessing their veracity is an important task with downstream applications in journalism. A significant challenge is how to keep rumour analysis tools up-to-date as new information becomes available for particular rumours that spread in a social network. This paper presents a novel open-source web-based rumour analysis tool that can continuous learn from journalists. The system features a rumour annotation service that allows journalists to easily provide feedback for a given social media post through a web-based interface. The feedback allows the system to improve an underlying state-of-the-art neural network-based rumour classification model. The system can be easily integrated as a service into existing tools and platforms used by journalists using a REST API.
Dialogue systems have the potential to change how people interact with machines but are highly dependent on the quality of the data used to train them.It is therefore important to develop good dialogue annotation tools which can improve the speed and quality of dialogue data annotation. With this in mind, we introduce LIDA, an annotation tool designed specifically for conversation data. As far as we know, LIDA is the first dialogue annotation system that handles the entire dialogue annotation pipeline from raw text, as may be the output of transcription services, to structured conversation data. Furthermore it supports the integration of arbitrary machine learning mod-els as annotation recommenders and also has a dedicated interface to resolve inter-annotator disagreements such as after crowdsourcing an-notations for a dataset. LIDA is fully open source, documented and publicly available.[https://github.com/Wluper/lida] {--}{\textgreater} Screen Cast: https://vimeo.com/329824847
We present LINSPECTOR WEB , an open source multilingual inspector to analyze word representations. Our system provides researchers working in low-resource settings with an easily accessible web based probing tool to gain quick insights into their word embeddings especially outside of the English language. To do this we employ 16 simple linguistic probing tasks such as gender, case marking, and tense for a diverse set of 28 languages. We support probing of static word embeddings along with pretrained AllenNLP models that are commonly used for NLP downstream tasks such as named entity recognition, natural language inference and dependency parsing. The results are visualized in a polar chart and also provided as a table. LINSPECTOR WEB is available as an offline tool or at https://linspector.ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de.
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) have developed rapidly and attracted large number of learners. In this work, we present MAssistant system, a personal knowledge assistant for MOOC learners. MAssistant helps users to trace the concepts they have learned in MOOCs, and to build their own concept graphs. There are three key components in MAssistant: (i) a large-scale concept graph built from open data sources, which contains concepts in various domains and relations among them; (ii) a browser extension which interacts with learners when they are watching video lectures, and presents important concepts to them; (iii) a web application allowing users to explore their personal concept graphs, which are built based on their learning activities on MOOCs. MAssistant will facilitate the knowledge management task for MOOC learners, and make the learning on MOOCs easier.
An interface for building, improving and customising a given Named Entity Recognition and Linking (NER+L) model for biomedical domain text, and the efficient collation of accurate research use case specific training data and subsequent model training. Screencast demo available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM914DQjvSo
We demonstrate a conversational system which engages the user through a multi-modal, multi-turn dialog over the user{'}s memories. The system can perform QA over memories by responding to user queries to recall specific attributes and associated media (e.g. photos) of past episodic memories. The system can also make proactive suggestions to surface related events or facts from past memories to make conversations more engaging and natural. To implement such a system, we collect a new corpus of memory grounded conversations, which comprises human-to-human role-playing dialogs given synthetic memory graphs with simulated attributes. Our proof-of-concept system operates on these synthetic memory graphs, however it can be trained and applied to real-world user memory data (e.g. photo albums, etc.) We present the architecture of the proposed conversational system, and example queries that the system supports.
The main alternatives nowadays to deal with sequences are Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) architectures and the Transformer. In this context, Both RNN{'}s and Transformer have been used as an encoder-decoder architecture with multiple layers in each module. Far beyond this, these architectures are the basis for the contextual word embeddings which are revolutionizing most natural language downstream applications. However, intermediate representations in either the RNN or Transformer architectures can be difficult to interpret. To make these layer representations more accessible and meaningful, we introduce a web-based tool that visualizes them both at the sentence and token level. We present three use cases. The first analyses gender issues in contextual word embeddings. The second and third are showing multilingual intermediate representations for sentences and tokens and the evolution of these intermediate representations along with the multiple layers of the decoder and in the context of multilingual machine translation.
MY-AKKHARA is a method used to input Burmese texts encoded in the Unicode standard, based on commonly accepted Latin transcription. By using this method, arbitrary Burmese strings can be accurately inputted with 26 lowercase Latin letters. Meanwhile, the 26 uppercase Latin letters are designed as shortcuts of lowercase letter sequences. The frequency of Burmese characters is considered in MY-AKKHARA to realize an efficient keystroke distribution on a QWERTY keyboard. Given that the Unicode standard has not been extensively used in digitization of Burmese, we hope that MY-AKKHARA can contribute to the widespread use of Unicode in Myanmar and can provide a platform for smart input methods for Burmese in the future. An implementation of MY-AKKHARA running in Windows is released at http://www2.nict.go.jp/astrec-att/member/ding/my-akkhara.html
Deep Neural Networks (DNN) have been widely employed in industry to address various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, many engineers find it a big overhead when they have to choose from multiple frameworks, compare different types of models, and understand various optimization mechanisms. An NLP toolkit for DNN models with both generality and flexibility can greatly improve the productivity of engineers by saving their learning cost and guiding them to find optimal solutions to their tasks. In this paper, we introduce NeuronBlocks, a toolkit encapsulating a suite of neural network modules as building blocks to construct various DNN models with complex architecture. This toolkit empowers engineers to build, train, and test various NLP models through simple configuration of JSON files. The experiments on several NLP datasets such as GLUE, WikiQA and CoNLL-2003 demonstrate the effectiveness of NeuronBlocks. Code: https://github.com/Microsoft/NeuronBlocks Demo: https://youtu.be/x6cOpVSZcdo
OpenNRE is an open-source and extensible toolkit that provides a unified framework to implement neural models for relation extraction (RE). Specifically, by implementing typical RE methods, OpenNRE not only allows developers to train custom models to extract structured relational facts from the plain text but also supports quick model validation for researchers. Besides, OpenNRE provides various functional RE modules based on both TensorFlow and PyTorch to maintain sufficient modularity and extensibility, making it becomes easy to incorporate new models into the framework. Besides the toolkit, we also release an online system to meet real-time extraction without any training and deploying. Meanwhile, the online system can extract facts in various scenarios as well as aligning the extracted facts to Wikidata, which may benefit various downstream knowledge-driven applications (e.g., information retrieval and question answering). More details of the toolkit and online system can be obtained from http://github.com/thunlp/OpenNRE.
Generating syntactically and semantically valid and relevant questions from paragraphs is useful with many applications. Manual generation is a labour-intensive task, as it requires the reading, parsing and understanding of long passages of text. A number of question generation models based on sequence-to-sequence techniques have recently been proposed. Most of them generate questions from sentences only, and none of them is publicly available as an easy-to-use service. In this paper, we demonstrate ParaQG, a Web-based system for generating questions from sentences and paragraphs. ParaQG incorporates a number of novel functionalities to make the question generation process user-friendly. It provides an interactive interface for a user to select answers with visual insights on generation of questions. It also employs various faceted views to group similar questions as well as filtering techniques to eliminate unanswerable questions.
We present PolyResponse, a conversational search engine that supports task-oriented dialogue. It is a retrieval-based approach that bypasses the complex multi-component design of traditional task-oriented dialogue systems and the use of explicit semantics in the form of task-specific ontologies. The PolyResponse engine is trained on hundreds of millions of examples extracted from real conversations: it learns what responses are appropriate in different conversational contexts. It then ranks a large index of text and visual responses according to their similarity to the given context, and narrows down the list of relevant entities during the multi-turn conversation. We introduce a restaurant search and booking system powered by the PolyResponse engine, currently available in 8 different languages.
We present PyOpenDial, a Python-based domain-independent, open-source toolkit for spoken dialogue systems. Recent advances in core components of dialogue systems, such as speech recognition, language understanding, dialogue management, and language generation, harness deep learning to achieve state-of-the-art performance. The original OpenDial, implemented in Java, provides a plugin architecture to integrate external modules, but lacks Python bindings, making it difficult to interface with popular deep learning frameworks such as Tensorflow or PyTorch. To this end, we re-implemented OpenDial in Python and extended the toolkit with a number of novel functionalities for neural dialogue state tracking and action planning. We describe the overall architecture and its extensions, and illustrate their use on an example where the system response model is implemented with a recurrent neural network.
We introduce Redcoat, a web-based annotation tool that supports collaborative hierarchical entity typing. As an annotation tool, Redcoat also facilitates knowledge elicitation by allowing the creation and continuous refinement of concept hierarchies during annotation. It aims to minimise not only annotation time but the time it takes for project creators to set up and distribute projects to annotators. Projects created using the web-based interface can be rapidly distributed to a list of email addresses. Redcoat handles the propagation of documents amongst annotators and automatically scales the annotation workload depending on the number of active annotators. In this paper we discuss these key features and outline Redcoat{'}s system architecture. We also highlight Redcoat{'}s unique benefits over existing annotation tools via a qualitative comparison.
We introduce Seagle, a platform for comparative evaluation of semantic text encoding models on information retrieval (IR) tasks. Seagle implements (1) word embedding aggregators, which represent texts as algebraic aggregations of pretrained word embeddings and (2) pretrained semantic encoders, and allows for their comparative evaluation on arbitrary (monolingual and cross-lingual) IR collections. We benchmark Seagle{'}s models on monolingual document retrieval and cross-lingual sentence retrieval. Seagle functionality can be exploited via an easy-to-use web interface and its modular backend (micro-service architecture) can easily be extended with additional semantic search models.
Computational stylometry has become an increasingly important aspect of literary criticism, but many humanists lack the technical expertise or language-specific NLP resources required to exploit computational methods. We demonstrate a stylometry toolkit for analysis of Latin literary texts, which is freely available at www.qcrit.org/stylometry. Our toolkit generates data for a diverse range of literary features and has an intuitive point-and-click interface. The features included have proven effective for multiple literary studies and are calculated using custom heuristics without the need for syntactic parsing. As such, the toolkit models one approach to the user-friendly generation of stylometric data, which could be extended to other premodern and non-English languages underserved by standard NLP resources.
We present a novel system providing summaries for Computer Science publications. Through a qualitative user study, we identified the most valuable scenarios for discovery, exploration and understanding of scientific documents. Based on these findings, we built a system that retrieves and summarizes scientific documents for a given information need, either in form of a free-text query or by choosing categorized values such as scientific tasks, datasets and more. Our system ingested 270,000 papers, and its summarization module aims to generate concise yet detailed summaries. We validated our approach with human experts.
Short vowels, aka diacritics, are more often omitted when writing different varieties of Arabic including Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), Classical Arabic (CA), and Dialectal Arabic (DA). However, diacritics are required to properly pronounce words, which makes diacritic restoration (a.k.a. diacritization) essential for language learning and text-to-speech applications. In this paper, we present a system for diacritizing MSA, CA, and two varieties of DA, namely Moroccan and Tunisian. The system uses a character level sequence-to-sequence deep learning model that requires no feature engineering and beats all previous SOTA systems for all the Arabic varieties that we test on.
We introduce Tanbih, a news aggregator with intelligent analysis tools to help readers understanding what{'}s behind a news story. Our system displays news grouped into events and generates media profiles that show the general factuality of reporting, the degree of propagandistic content, hyper-partisanship, leading political ideology, general frame of reporting, and stance with respect to various claims and topics of a news outlet. In addition, we automatically analyse each article to detect whether it is propagandistic and to determine its stance with respect to a number of controversial topics.
Language technologies play a key role in assisting people with their writing. Although there has been steady progress in e.g., grammatical error correction (GEC), human writers are yet to benefit from this progress due to the high development cost of integrating with writing software. We propose TEASPN, a protocol and an open-source framework for achieving integrated writing assistance environments. The protocol standardizes the way writing software communicates with servers that implement such technologies, allowing developers and researchers to integrate the latest developments in natural language processing (NLP) with low cost. As a result, users can enjoy the integrated experience in their favorite writing software. The results from experiments with human participants show that users use a wide range of technologies and rate their writing experience favorably, allowing them to write more fluent text.
We present a writing prototype feedback system, TellMeWhy, to provide explanations of errors in submitted essays. In our approach, the sentence with corrections is analyzed to identify error types and problem words, aimed at customizing explanations based on the context of the error. The method involves learning the relation of errors and problem words, generating common feedback patterns, and extracting grammar patterns, collocations and example sentences. At run-time, a sentence with corrections is classified, and the problem word and template are identified to provide detailed explanations. Preliminary evaluation shows that the method has potential to improve existing commercial writing services.
Existing works, including ELMO and BERT, have revealed the importance of pre-training for NLP tasks. While there does not exist a single pre-training model that works best in all cases, it is of necessity to develop a framework that is able to deploy various pre-training models efficiently. For this purpose, we propose an assemble-on-demand pre-training toolkit, namely Universal Encoder Representations (UER). UER is loosely coupled, and encapsulated with rich modules. By assembling modules on demand, users can either reproduce a state-of-the-art pre-training model or develop a pre-training model that remains unexplored. With UER, we have built a model zoo, which contains pre-trained models based on different corpora, encoders, and targets (objectives). With proper pre-trained models, we could achieve new state-of-the-art results on a range of downstream datasets.
There are tons of news generated every day reflecting the change of key roles such as people, organizations and political parties. Analyzing the trend of these key roles can help understand the information flow in a more effective way. In this paper, we present a demonstration system that visualizes the news trend of key roles based on natural language processing techniques. Specifically, we apply semantic role labelling to understand relationships between key roles in the news. We also train a dynamic word embedding model to align representations of words in different time periods to measure how the similarities between a key role and news topics change over time. Note: The github link to our demo jupyter notebook and screencast video is https://github.com/kasinxc/Visualizing-Trend-of-Key-Roles-in-News-Articles
Automatic evaluation of text generation tasks (e.g. machine translation, text summarization, image captioning and video description) usually relies heavily on task-specific metrics, such as BLEU and ROUGE. They, however, are abstract numbers and are not perfectly aligned with human assessment. This suggests inspecting detailed examples as a complement to identify system error patterns. In this paper, we present VizSeq, a visual analysis toolkit for instance-level and corpus-level system evaluation on a wide variety of text generation tasks. It supports multimodal sources and multiple text references, providing visualization in Jupyter notebook or a web app interface. It can be used locally or deployed onto public servers for centralized data hosting and benchmarking. It covers most common n-gram based metrics accelerated with multiprocessing, and also provides latest embedding-based metrics such as BERTScore.
For languages with simple morphology such as English, automatic annotation pipelines such as spaCy or Stanford{'}s CoreNLP successfully serve projects in academia and the industry. For many morphologically-rich languages (MRLs), similar pipelines show sub-optimal performance that limits their applicability for text analysis in research and the industry. The sub-optimal performance is mainly due to errors in early morphological disambiguation decisions, that cannot be recovered later on in the pipeline, yielding incoherent annotations on the whole. This paper describes the design and use of the ONLP suite, a joint morpho-syntactic infrastructure for processing Modern Hebrew texts. The joint inference over morphology and syntax substantially limits error propagation, and leads to high accuracy. ONLP provides rich and expressive annotations which already serve diverse academic and commercial needs. Its accompanying demo further serves educational activities, introducing Hebrew NLP intricacies to researchers and non-researchers alike.
Deep learning has become the dominant approach to NLP problems, especially when applied on large scale corpora. Recent progress on unsupervised pre-training techniques such as BERT, ELMo, GPT-2, and language modeling in general, when applied on large corpora, is shown to be effective in improving a wide variety of downstream tasks. These techniques push the limits of available hardware, requiring specialized frameworks optimized for GPU, ASIC, and distributed cloud-based training.A few complexities pose challenges to scale these models and algorithms effectively. Compared to other areas where deep learning is applied, these NLP models contain a variety of moving parts: text normalization and tokenization, word representation at subword-level and word-level, variable-length models such as RNN and attention, and sequential decoder based on beam search, among others.In this hands-on tutorial, we take a closer look at the challenges from these complexities and see how with proper tooling with Apache MXNet and GluonNLP, we can overcome these challenges and achieve state-of-the-art results for real-world problems. GluonNLP is a powerful new toolkit that combines MXNet{'}s speed, the flexibility of Gluon, and an extensive new library automating the most laborious aspects of deep learning for NLP.
Multilingual communities exhibit code-mixing, that is, mixing of two or more socially stable languages in a single conversation, sometimes even in a single utterance. This phenomenon has been widely studied by linguists and interaction scientists in the spoken language of such communities. However, with the prevalence of social media and other informal interactive platforms, code-switching is now also ubiquitously observed in user-generated text. As multilingual communities are more the norm from a global perspective, it becomes essential that code-switched text and speech are adequately handled by language technologies and NUIs.Code-mixing is extremely prevalent in all multilingual societies. Current studies have shown that as much as 20{\%} of user generated content from some geographies, like South Asia, parts of Europe, and Singapore, are code-mixed. Thus, it is very important to handle code-mixed content as a part of NLP systems and applications for these geographies.In the past 5 years, there has been an active interest in computational models for code-mixing with a substantive research outcome in terms of publications, datasets and systems. However, it is not easy to find a single point of access for a complete and coherent overview of the research. This tutorial is expecting to fill this gap and provide new researchers in the area with a foundation in both linguistic and computational aspects of code-mixing. We hope that this then becomes a starting point for those who wish to pursue research, design, development and deployment of code-mixed systems in multilingual societies.
A fundamental long-term goal of conversational AI is to merge two main dialogue system paradigms into a standalone multi-purpose system. Such a system should be capable of conversing about arbitrary topics (Paradigm 1: open-domain dialogue systems), and simultaneously assist humans with completing a wide range of tasks with well-defined semantics such as restaurant search and booking, customer service applications, or ticket bookings (Paradigm 2: task-based dialogue systems).The recent developmental leaps in conversational AI technology are undoubtedly linked to more and more sophisticated deep learning algorithms that capture patterns in increasing amounts of data generated by various data collection mechanisms. The goal of this tutorial is therefore twofold. First, it aims at familiarising the research community with the recent advances in algorithmic design of statistical dialogue systems for both open-domain and task-based dialogue paradigms. The focus of the tutorial is on recently introduced end-to-end learning for dialogue systems and their relation to more common modular systems. In theory, learning end-to-end from data offers seamless and unprecedented portability of dialogue systems to a wide spectrum of tasks and languages. From a practical point of view, there are still plenty of research challenges and opportunities remaining: in this tutorial we analyse this gap between theory and practice, and introduce the research community with the main advantages as well as with key practical limitations of current end-to-end dialogue learning.The critical requirement of each statistical dialogue system is the data at hand. The system cannot provide assistance for the task without having appropriate task-related data to learn from. Therefore, the second major goal of this tutorial is to provide a comprehensive overview of the current approaches to data collection for dialogue, and analyse the current gaps and challenges with diverse data collection protocols, as well as their relation to and current limitations of data-driven end-to-end dialogue modeling. We will again analyse this relation and limitations both from research and industry perspective, and provide key insights on the application of state-of-the-art methodology into industry-scale conversational AI systems.
Recent advances in data-driven machine learning techniques (e.g., deep neural networks) have revolutionized many natural language processing applications. These approaches automatically learn how to make decisions based on the statistics and diagnostic information from large amounts of training data. Despite the remarkable accuracy of machine learning in various applications, learning algorithms run the risk of relying on societal biases encoded in the training data to make predictions. This often occurs even when gender and ethnicity information is not explicitly provided to the system because learning algorithms are able to discover implicit associations between individuals and their demographic information based on other variables such as names, titles, home addresses, etc. Therefore, machine learning algorithms risk potentially encouraging unfair and discriminatory decision making and raise serious privacy concerns. Without properly quantifying and reducing the reliance on such correlations, broad adoption of these models might have the undesirable effect of magnifying harmful stereotypes or implicit biases that rely on sensitive demographic attributes.In this tutorial, we will review the history of bias and fairness studies in machine learning and language processing and present recent community effort in quantifying and mitigating bias in natural language processing models for a wide spectrum of tasks, including word embeddings, co-reference resolution, machine translation, and vision-and-language tasks. In particular, we will focus on the following topics:+ Definitions of fairness and bias.+ Data, algorithms, and models that propagate and even amplify social bias to NLP applications and metrics to quantify these biases.+ Algorithmic solutions; learning objective; design principles to prevent social bias in NLP systems and their potential drawbacks.The tutorial will bring researchers and practitioners to be aware of this issue, and encourage the research community to propose innovative solutions to promote fairness in NLP.
This tutorial provides a comprehensive guide to the process of discreteness in neural NLP.As a gentle start, we will briefly introduce the background of deep learning based NLP, where we point out the ubiquitous discreteness of natural language and its challenges in neural information processing. Particularly, we will focus on how such discreteness plays a role in the input space, the latent space, and the output space of a neural network. In each part, we will provide examples, discuss machine learning techniques, as well as demonstrate NLP applications.
This tutorial aims to introduce recent advances in graph-based deep learning techniques such as Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) for Natural Language Processing (NLP). It provides a brief introduction to deep learning methods on non-Euclidean domains such as graphs and justifies their relevance in NLP. It then covers recent advances in applying graph-based deep learning methods for various NLP tasks, such as semantic role labeling, machine translation, relationship extraction, and many more.
Distributional word vectors have become an indispensable component of most state-of-art NLP models. As a major artefact of the underlying distributional hypothesis, distributional word vector spaces conflate various paradigmatic and syntagmatic lexico-semantic relations. For example, relations such as synonymy/similarity (e.g., car-automobile) or lexical entailment (e.g., car-vehicle) often cannot be distinguished from antonymy (e.g., black-white), meronymy (e.g., car-wheel) or broader thematic relatedness (e.g., car-driver) based on the distances in the distributional vector space. This inherent property of distributional spaces often harms performance in downstream applications, since different lexico-semantic relations support different classes of NLP applications. For instance, Semantic Similarity provides guidance for Paraphrasing, Dialogue State Tracking, and Text Simplification, Lexical Entailment supports Natural Language Inference and Taxonomy Induction, whereas broader thematic relatedness yields gains for Named Entity Recognition, Parsing, and Text Classification and Retrieval.A plethora of methods have been proposed to emphasize specific lexico-semantic relations in a reshaped (i.e., specialized) vector space. A common solution is to move beyond purely unsupervised word representation learning and include external lexico-semantic knowledge, in a process commonly referred to as semantic specialization. In this tutorial, we provide a thorough overview of specialization methods, covering: 1) joint specialization methods, which augment distributional learning objectives with external linguistic constraints, 2) post-processing retrofitting models, which fine-tune pre-trained distributional vectors to better reflect external linguistic constraints, and 3) the most recently proposed post-specialization methods that generalize the perturbations of the post-processing methods to the whole distributional space. In addition to providing a comprehensive overview of specialization methods, we will introduce the most recent developments, such as (among others): handling asymmetric relations (e.g., hypernymy-hyponymy) in Euclidean and hyperbolic spaces by accounting for vector magnitude as well as for vector distance; cross-lingual transfer of semantic specialization for languages without external lexico-semantic resources; downstream effects of specializing distributional vector spaces; injecting external knowledge into unsupervised pretraining architectures such as ELMo or BERT.
Neural sequence generation is typically performed token-by-token and left-to-right. Whenever a token is generated only previously produced tokens are taken into consideration. In contrast, for problems such as sequence classification, bidirectional attention, which takes both past and future tokens into consideration, has been shown to perform much better. We propose to make the sequence generation process bidirectional by employing special placeholder tokens. Treated as a node in a fully connected graph, a placeholder token can take past and future tokens into consideration when generating the actual output token. We verify the effectiveness of our approach experimentally on two conversational tasks where the proposed bidirectional model outperforms competitive baselines by a large margin.
Attention mechanisms play a central role in NLP systems, especially within recurrent neural network (RNN) models. Recently, there has been increasing interest in whether or not the intermediate representations offered by these modules may be used to explain the reasoning for a model{'}s prediction, and consequently reach insights regarding the model{'}s decision-making process. A recent paper claims that {`}Attention is not Explanation{'} (Jain and Wallace, 2019). We challenge many of the assumptions underlying this work, arguing that such a claim depends on one{'}s definition of explanation, and that testing it needs to take into account all elements of the model. We propose four alternative tests to determine when/whether attention can be used as explanation: a simple uniform-weights baseline; a variance calibration based on multiple random seed runs; a diagnostic framework using frozen weights from pretrained models; and an end-to-end adversarial attention training protocol. Each allows for meaningful interpretation of attention mechanisms in RNN models. We show that even when reliable adversarial distributions can be found, they don{'}t perform well on the simple diagnostic, indicating that prior work does not disprove the usefulness of attention mechanisms for explainability.
Active learning (AL) is a widely-used training strategy for maximizing predictive performance subject to a fixed annotation budget. In AL, one iteratively selects training examples for annotation, often those for which the current model is most uncertain (by some measure). The hope is that active sampling leads to better performance than would be achieved under independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random samples. While AL has shown promise in retrospective evaluations, these studies often ignore practical obstacles to its use. In this paper, we show that while AL may provide benefits when used with specific models and for particular domains, the benefits of current approaches do not generalize reliably across models and tasks. This is problematic because in practice, one does not have the opportunity to explore and compare alternative AL strategies. Moreover, AL couples the training dataset with the model used to guide its acquisition. We find that subsequently training a successor model with an actively-acquired dataset does not consistently outperform training on i.i.d. sampled data. Our findings raise the question of whether the downsides inherent to AL are worth the modest and inconsistent performance gains it tends to afford.
Deep learning systems thrive on abundance of labeled training data but such data is not always available, calling for alternative methods of supervision. One such method is expectation regularization (XR) (Mann and McCallum, 2007), where models are trained based on expected label proportions. We propose a novel application of the XR framework for transfer learning between related tasks, where knowing the labels of task A provides an estimation of the label proportion of task B. We then use a model trained for A to label a large corpus, and use this corpus with an XR loss to train a model for task B. To make the XR framework applicable to large-scale deep-learning setups, we propose a stochastic batched approximation procedure. We demonstrate the approach on the task of Aspect-based Sentiment classification, where we effectively use a sentence-level sentiment predictor to train accurate aspect-based predictor. The method improves upon fully supervised neural system trained on aspect-level data, and is also cumulative with LM-based pretraining, as we demonstrate by improving a BERT-based Aspect-based Sentiment model.
Contextual word representations, typically trained on unstructured, unlabeled text, do not contain any explicit grounding to real world entities and are often unable to remember facts about those entities. We propose a general method to embed multiple knowledge bases (KBs) into large scale models, and thereby enhance their representations with structured, human-curated knowledge. For each KB, we first use an integrated entity linker to retrieve relevant entity embeddings, then update contextual word representations via a form of word-to-entity attention. In contrast to previous approaches, the entity linkers and self-supervised language modeling objective are jointly trained end-to-end in a multitask setting that combines a small amount of entity linking supervision with a large amount of raw text. After integrating WordNet and a subset of Wikipedia into BERT, the knowledge enhanced BERT (KnowBert) demonstrates improved perplexity, ability to recall facts as measured in a probing task and downstream performance on relationship extraction, entity typing, and word sense disambiguation. KnowBert{'}s runtime is comparable to BERT{'}s and it scales to large KBs.
Replacing static word embeddings with contextualized word representations has yielded significant improvements on many NLP tasks. However, just how contextual are the contextualized representations produced by models such as ELMo and BERT? Are there infinitely many context-specific representations for each word, or are words essentially assigned one of a finite number of word-sense representations? For one, we find that the contextualized representations of all words are not isotropic in any layer of the contextualizing model. While representations of the same word in different contexts still have a greater cosine similarity than those of two different words, this self-similarity is much lower in upper layers. This suggests that upper layers of contextualizing models produce more context-specific representations, much like how upper layers of LSTMs produce more task-specific representations. In all layers of ELMo, BERT, and GPT-2, on average, less than 5{\%} of the variance in a word{'}s contextualized representations can be explained by a static embedding for that word, providing some justification for the success of contextualized representations.
Word embeddings are increasingly used for the automatic detection of semantic change; yet, a robust evaluation and systematic comparison of the choices involved has been lacking. We propose a new evaluation framework for semantic change detection and find that (i) using the whole time series is preferable over only comparing between the first and last time points; (ii) independently trained and aligned embeddings perform better than continuously trained embeddings for long time periods; and (iii) that the reference point for comparison matters. We also present an analysis of the changes detected on a large Twitter dataset spanning 5.5 years.
Similarity measures based purely on word embeddings are comfortably competing with much more sophisticated deep learning and expert-engineered systems on unsupervised semantic textual similarity (STS) tasks. In contrast to commonly used geometric approaches, we treat a single word embedding as e.g. 300 observations from a scalar random variable. Using this paradigm, we first illustrate that similarities derived from elementary pooling operations and classic correlation coefficients yield excellent results on standard STS benchmarks, outperforming many recently proposed methods while being much faster and trivial to implement. Next, we demonstrate how to avoid pooling operations altogether and compare sets of word embeddings directly via correlation operators between reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. Just like cosine similarity is used to compare individual word vectors, we introduce a novel application of the centered kernel alignment (CKA) as a natural generalisation of squared cosine similarity for sets of word vectors. Likewise, CKA is very easy to implement and enjoys very strong empirical results.
Game-theoretic models, thanks to their intrinsic ability to exploit contextual information, have shown to be particularly suited for the Word Sense Disambiguation task. They represent ambiguous words as the players of a non cooperative game and their senses as the strategies that the players can select in order to play the games. The interaction among the players is modeled with a weighted graph and the payoff as an embedding similarity function, that the players try to maximize. The impact of the word and sense embedding representations in the framework has been tested and analyzed extensively: experiments on standard benchmarks show state-of-art performances and different tests hint at the usefulness of using disambiguation to obtain contextualized word representations.
Dialog policy decides what and how a task-oriented dialog system will respond, and plays a vital role in delivering effective conversations. Many studies apply Reinforcement Learning to learn a dialog policy with the reward function which requires elaborate design and pre-specified user goals. With the growing needs to handle complex goals across multiple domains, such manually designed reward functions are not affordable to deal with the complexity of real-world tasks. To this end, we propose Guided Dialog Policy Learning, a novel algorithm based on Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning for joint reward estimation and policy optimization in multi-domain task-oriented dialog. The proposed approach estimates the reward signal and infers the user goal in the dialog sessions. The reward estimator evaluates the state-action pairs so that it can guide the dialog policy at each dialog turn. Extensive experiments on a multi-domain dialog dataset show that the dialog policy guided by the learned reward function achieves remarkably higher task success than state-of-the-art baselines.
Multi-turn retrieval-based conversation is an important task for building intelligent dialogue systems. Existing works mainly focus on matching candidate responses with every context utterance on multiple levels of granularity, which ignore the side effect of using excessive context information. Context utterances provide abundant information for extracting more matching features, but it also brings noise signals and unnecessary information. In this paper, we will analyze the side effect of using too many context utterances and propose a multi-hop selector network (MSN) to alleviate the problem. Specifically, MSN firstly utilizes a multi-hop selector to select the relevant utterances as context. Then, the model matches the filtered context with the candidate response and obtains a matching score. Experimental results show that MSN outperforms some state-of-the-art methods on three public multi-turn dialogue datasets.
Previous research on empathetic dialogue systems has mostly focused on generating responses given certain emotions. However, being empathetic not only requires the ability of generating emotional responses, but more importantly, requires the understanding of user emotions and replying appropriately. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end approach for modeling empathy in dialogue systems: Mixture of Empathetic Listeners (MoEL). Our model first captures the user emotions and outputs an emotion distribution. Based on this, MoEL will softly combine the output states of the appropriate Listener(s), which are each optimized to react to certain emotions, and generate an empathetic response. Human evaluations on EMPATHETIC-DIALOGUES dataset confirm that MoEL outperforms multitask training baseline in terms of empathy, relevance, and fluency. Furthermore, the case study on generated responses of different Listeners shows high interpretability of our model.
Querying the knowledge base (KB) has long been a challenge in the end-to-end task-oriented dialogue system. Previous sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) dialogue generation work treats the KB query as an attention over the entire KB, without the guarantee that the generated entities are consistent with each other. In this paper, we propose a novel framework which queries the KB in two steps to improve the consistency of generated entities. In the first step, inspired by the observation that a response can usually be supported by a single KB row, we introduce a KB retrieval component which explicitly returns the most relevant KB row given a dialogue history. The retrieval result is further used to filter the irrelevant entities in a Seq2Seq response generation model to improve the consistency among the output entities. In the second step, we further perform the attention mechanism to address the most correlated KB column. Two methods are proposed to make the training feasible without labeled retrieval data, which include distant supervision and Gumbel-Softmax technique. Experiments on two publicly available task oriented dialog datasets show the effectiveness of our model by outperforming the baseline systems and producing entity-consistent responses.
Reinforcement learning (RL) is an effective approach to learn an optimal dialog policy for task-oriented visual dialog systems. A common practice is to apply RL on a neural sequence-to-sequence(seq2seq) framework with the action space being the output vocabulary in the decoder. However, it is difficult to design a reward function that can achieve a balance between learning an effective policy and generating a natural dialog response. This paper proposes a novel framework that alternatively trains a RL policy for image guessing and a supervised seq2seq model to improve dialog generation quality. We evaluate our framework on the GuessWhich task and the framework achieves the state-of-the-art performance in both task completion and dialog quality.
Emotion recognition in conversation (ERC) has received much attention, lately, from researchers due to its potential widespread applications in diverse areas, such as health-care, education, and human resources. In this paper, we present Dialogue Graph Convolutional Network (DialogueGCN), a graph neural network based approach to ERC. We leverage self and inter-speaker dependency of the interlocutors to model conversational context for emotion recognition. Through the graph network, DialogueGCN addresses context propagation issues present in the current RNN-based methods. We empirically show that this method alleviates such issues, while outperforming the current state of the art on a number of benchmark emotion classification datasets.
Messages in human conversations inherently convey emotions. The task of detecting emotions in textual conversations leads to a wide range of applications such as opinion mining in social networks. However, enabling machines to analyze emotions in conversations is challenging, partly because humans often rely on the context and commonsense knowledge to express emotions. In this paper, we address these challenges by proposing a Knowledge-Enriched Transformer (KET), where contextual utterances are interpreted using hierarchical self-attention and external commonsense knowledge is dynamically leveraged using a context-aware affective graph attention mechanism. Experiments on multiple textual conversation datasets demonstrate that both context and commonsense knowledge are consistently beneficial to the emotion detection performance. In addition, the experimental results show that our KET model outperforms the state-of-the-art models on most of the tested datasets in F1 score.
Multiple emotions with different intensities are often evoked by events described in documents. Oftentimes, such event information is hidden and needs to be discovered from texts. Unveiling the hidden event information can help to understand how the emotions are evoked and provide explainable results. However, existing studies often ignore the latent event information. In this paper, we proposed a novel interpretable relevant emotion ranking model with the event information incorporated into a deep learning architecture using the event-driven attentions. Moreover, corpus-level event embeddings and document-level event distributions are introduced respectively to consider the global events in corpus and the document-specific events simultaneously. Experimental results on three real-world corpora show that the proposed approach performs remarkably better than the state-of-the-art emotion detection approaches and multi-label approaches. Moreover, interpretable results can be obtained to shed light on the events which trigger certain emotions.
Several recent works have considered the problem of generating reviews (or {`}tips{'}) as a form of explanation as to why a recommendation might match a customer{'}s interests. While promising, we demonstrate that existing approaches struggle (in terms of both quality and content) to generate justifications that are relevant to users{'} decision-making process. We seek to introduce new datasets and methods to address the recommendation justification task. In terms of data, we first propose an {`}extractive{'} approach to identify review segments which justify users{'} intentions; this approach is then used to distantly label massive review corpora and construct large-scale personalized recommendation justification datasets. In terms of generation, we are able to design two personalized generation models with this data: (1) a reference-based Seq2Seq model with aspect-planning which can generate justifications covering different aspects, and (2) an aspect-conditional masked language model which can generate diverse justifications based on templates extracted from justification histories. We conduct experiments on two real-world datasets which show that our model is capable of generating convincing and diverse justifications.
Customers ask questions and customer service staffs answer their questions, which is the basic service model via multi-turn customer service (CS) dialogues on E-commerce platforms. Existing studies fail to provide comprehensive service satisfaction analysis, namely satisfaction polarity classification (e.g., well satisfied, met and unsatisfied) and sentimental utterance identification (e.g., positive, neutral and negative). In this paper, we conduct a pilot study on the task of service satisfaction analysis (SSA) based on multi-turn CS dialogues. We propose an extensible Context-Assisted Multiple Instance Learning (CAMIL) model to predict the sentiments of all the customer utterances and then aggregate those sentiments into service satisfaction polarity. After that, we propose a novel Context Clue Matching Mechanism (CCMM) to enhance the representations of all customer utterances with their matched context clues, i.e., sentiment and reasoning clues. We construct two CS dialogue datasets from a top E-commerce platform. Extensive experimental results are presented and contrasted against a few previous models to demonstrate the efficacy of our model.
Medical relation extraction discovers relations between entity mentions in text, such as research articles. For this task, dependency syntax has been recognized as a crucial source of features. Yet in the medical domain, 1-best parse trees suffer from relatively low accuracies, diminishing their usefulness. We investigate a method to alleviate this problem by utilizing dependency forests. Forests contain more than one possible decisions and therefore have higher recall but more noise compared with 1-best outputs. A graph neural network is used to represent the forests, automatically distinguishing the useful syntactic information from parsing noise. Results on two benchmarks show that our method outperforms the standard tree-based methods, giving the state-of-the-art results in the literature.
Open relation extraction (OpenRE) aims to extract relational facts from the open-domain corpus. To this end, it discovers relation patterns between named entities and then clusters those semantically equivalent patterns into a united relation cluster. Most OpenRE methods typically confine themselves to unsupervised paradigms, without taking advantage of existing relational facts in knowledge bases (KBs) and their high-quality labeled instances. To address this issue, we propose Relational Siamese Networks (RSNs) to learn similarity metrics of relations from labeled data of pre-defined relations, and then transfer the relational knowledge to identify novel relations in unlabeled data. Experiment results on two real-world datasets show that our framework can achieve significant improvements as compared with other state-of-the-art methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/thunlp/RSN.
While attention mechanisms have been proven to be effective in many NLP tasks, majority of them are data-driven. We propose a novel knowledge-attention encoder which incorporates prior knowledge from external lexical resources into deep neural networks for relation extraction task. Furthermore, we present three effective ways of integrating knowledge-attention with self-attention to maximize the utilization of both knowledge and data. The proposed relation extraction system is end-to-end and fully attention-based. Experiment results show that the proposed knowledge-attention mechanism has complementary strengths with self-attention, and our integrated models outperform existing CNN, RNN, and self-attention based models. State-of-the-art performance is achieved on TACRED, a complex and large-scale relation extraction dataset.
Entity alignment is a viable means for integrating heterogeneous knowledge among different knowledge graphs (KGs). Recent developments in the field often take an embedding-based approach to model the structural information of KGs so that entity alignment can be easily performed in the embedding space. However, most existing works do not explicitly utilize useful relation representations to assist in entity alignment, which, as we will show in the paper, is a simple yet effective way for improving entity alignment. This paper presents a novel joint learning framework for entity alignment. At the core of our approach is a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) based framework for learning both entity and relation representations. Rather than relying on pre-aligned relation seeds to learn relation representations, we first approximate them using entity embeddings learned by the GCN. We then incorporate the relation approximation into entities to iteratively learn better representations for both. Experiments performed on three real-world cross-lingual datasets show that our approach substantially outperforms state-of-the-art entity alignment methods.
For large-scale knowledge graphs (KGs), recent research has been focusing on the large proportion of infrequent relations which have been ignored by previous studies. For example few-shot learning paradigm for relations has been investigated. In this work, we further advocate that handling uncommon entities is inevitable when dealing with infrequent relations. Therefore, we propose a meta-learning framework that aims at handling infrequent relations with few-shot learning and uncommon entities by using textual descriptions. We design a novel model to better extract key information from textual descriptions. Besides, we also develop a novel generative model in our framework to enhance the performance by generating extra triplets during the training stage. Experiments are conducted on two datasets from real-world KGs, and the results show that our framework outperforms previous methods when dealing with infrequent relations and their accompanying uncommon entities.
Name tagging in low-resource languages or domains suffers from inadequate training data. Existing work heavily relies on additional information, while leaving those noisy annotations unexplored that extensively exist on the web. In this paper, we propose a novel neural model for name tagging solely based on weakly labeled (WL) data, so that it can be applied in any low-resource settings. To take the best advantage of all WL sentences, we split them into high-quality and noisy portions for two modules, respectively: (1) a classification module focusing on the large portion of noisy data can efficiently and robustly pretrain the tag classifier by capturing textual context semantics; and (2) a costly sequence labeling module focusing on high-quality data utilizes Partial-CRFs with non-entity sampling to achieve global optimum. Two modules are combined via shared parameters. Extensive experiments involving five low-resource languages and fine-grained food domain demonstrate our superior performance (6{\%} and 7.8{\%} F1 gains on average) as well as efficiency.
Despite of the recent success of collective entity linking (EL) methods, these {``}global{''} inference methods may yield sub-optimal results when the {``}all-mention coherence{''} assumption breaks, and often suffer from high computational cost at the inference stage, due to the complex search space. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective solution, called Dynamic Context Augmentation (DCA), for collective EL, which requires only one pass through the mentions in a document. DCA sequentially accumulates context information to make efficient, collective inference, and can cope with different local EL models as a plug-and-enhance module. We explore both supervised and reinforcement learning strategies for learning the DCA model. Extensive experiments show the effectiveness of our model with different learning settings, base models, decision orders and attention mechanisms.
To extract the structured representations of open-domain events, Bayesian graphical models have made some progress. However, these approaches typically assume that all words in a document are generated from a single event. While this may be true for short text such as tweets, such an assumption does not generally hold for long text such as news articles. Moreover, Bayesian graphical models often rely on Gibbs sampling for parameter inference which may take long time to converge. To address these limitations, we propose an event extraction model based on Generative Adversarial Nets, called Adversarial-neural Event Model (AEM). AEM models an event with a Dirichlet prior and uses a generator network to capture the patterns underlying latent events. A discriminator is used to distinguish documents reconstructed from the latent events and the original documents. A byproduct of the discriminator is that the features generated by the learned discriminator network allow the visualization of the extracted events. Our model has been evaluated on two Twitter datasets and a news article dataset. Experimental results show that our model outperforms the baseline approaches on all the datasets, with more significant improvements observed on the news article dataset where an increase of 15{\%} is observed in F-measure.
Bootstrapping for Entity Set Expansion (ESE) aims at iteratively acquiring new instances of a specific target category. Traditional bootstrapping methods often suffer from two problems: 1) delayed feedback, i.e., the pattern evaluation relies on both its direct extraction quality and extraction quality in later iterations. 2) sparse supervision, i.e., only few seed entities are used as the supervision. To address the above two problems, we propose a novel bootstrapping method combining the Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) algorithm with a deep similarity network, which can efficiently estimate delayed feedback for pattern evaluation and adaptively score entities given sparse supervision signals. Experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Condition is essential in scientific statement. Without the conditions (e.g., equipment, environment) that were precisely specified, facts (e.g., observations) in the statements may no longer be valid. Existing ScienceIE methods, which aim at extracting factual tuples from scientific text, do not consider the conditions. In this work, we propose a new sequence labeling framework (as well as a new tag schema) to jointly extract the fact and condition tuples from statement sentences. The framework has (1) a multi-output module to generate one or multiple tuples and (2) a multi-input module to feed in multiple types of signals as sequences. It improves F1 score relatively by 4.2{\%} on BioNLP2013 and by 6.2{\%} on a new bio-text dataset for tuple extraction.
The identification of complex semantic structures such as events and entity relations, already a challenging Information Extraction task, is doubly difficult from sources written in under-resourced and under-annotated languages. We investigate the suitability of cross-lingual structure transfer techniques for these tasks. We exploit relation- and event-relevant language-universal features, leveraging both symbolic (including part-of-speech and dependency path) and distributional (including type representation and contextualized representation) information. By representing all entity mentions, event triggers, and contexts into this complex and structured multilingual common space, using graph convolutional networks, we can train a relation or event extractor from source language annotations and apply it to the target language. Extensive experiments on cross-lingual relation and event transfer among English, Chinese, and Arabic demonstrate that our approach achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art supervised models trained on up to 3,000 manually annotated mentions: up to 62.6{\%} F-score for Relation Extraction, and 63.1{\%} F-score for Event Argument Role Labeling. The event argument role labeling model transferred from English to Chinese achieves similar performance as the model trained from Chinese. We thus find that language-universal symbolic and distributional representations are complementary for cross-lingual structure transfer.
Distant supervision for relation extraction enables one to effectively acquire structured relations out of very large text corpora with less human efforts. Nevertheless, most of the prior-art models for such tasks assume that the given text can be noisy, but their corresponding labels are clean. Such unrealistic assumption is contradictory with the fact that the given labels are often noisy as well, thus leading to significant performance degradation of those models on real-world data. To cope with this challenge, we propose a novel label-denoising framework that combines neural network with probabilistic modelling, which naturally takes into account the noisy labels during learning. We empirically demonstrate that our approach significantly improves the current art in uncovering the ground-truth relation labels.
Most existing event extraction (EE) methods merely extract event arguments within the sentence scope. However, such sentence-level EE methods struggle to handle soaring amounts of documents from emerging applications, such as finance, legislation, health, etc., where event arguments always scatter across different sentences, and even multiple such event mentions frequently co-exist in the same document. To address these challenges, we propose a novel end-to-end model, Doc2EDAG, which can generate an entity-based directed acyclic graph to fulfill the document-level EE (DEE) effectively. Moreover, we reformalize a DEE task with the no-trigger-words design to ease the document-level event labeling. To demonstrate the effectiveness of Doc2EDAG, we build a large-scale real-world dataset consisting of Chinese financial announcements with the challenges mentioned above. Extensive experiments with comprehensive analyses illustrate the superiority of Doc2EDAG over state-of-the-art methods. Data and codes can be found at https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG.
Event detection (ED) aims to locate trigger words in raw text and then classify them into correct event types. In this task, neural net- work based models became mainstream in re- cent years. However, two problems arise when it comes to languages without natural delim- iters, such as Chinese. First, word-based mod- els severely suffer from the problem of word- trigger mismatch, limiting the performance of the methods. In addition, even if trigger words could be accurately located, the ambi- guity of polysemy of triggers could still af- fect the trigger classification stage. To ad- dress the two issues simultaneously, we pro- pose the Trigger-aware Lattice Neural Net- work (TLNN). (1) The framework dynami- cally incorporates word and character informa- tion so that the trigger-word mismatch issue can be avoided. (2) Moreover, for polysemous characters and words, we model all senses of them with the help of an external linguistic knowledge base, so as to alleviate the prob- lem of ambiguous triggers. Experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our model could effectively tackle the two issues and outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods significantly, giving the best results. The source code of this paper can be obtained from https://github.com/thunlp/TLNN.
In natural language processing, it is common that many entities contain other entities inside them. Most existing works on named entity recognition (NER) only deal with flat entities but ignore nested ones. We propose a boundary-aware neural model for nested NER which leverages entity boundaries to predict entity categorical labels. Our model can locate entities precisely by detecting boundaries using sequence labeling models. Based on the detected boundaries, our model utilizes the boundary-relevant regions to predict entity categorical labels, which can decrease computation cost and relieve error propagation problem in layered sequence labeling model. We introduce multitask learning to capture the dependencies of entity boundaries and their categorical labels, which helps to improve the performance of identifying entities. We conduct our experiments on GENIA dataset and the experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms other state-of-the-art methods.
The multiple relation extraction task tries to extract all relational facts from a sentence. Existing works didn{'}t consider the extraction order of relational facts in a sentence. In this paper we argue that the extraction order is important in this task. To take the extraction order into consideration, we apply the reinforcement learning into a sequence-to-sequence model. The proposed model could generate relational facts freely. Widely conducted experiments on two public datasets demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method.
Open Information Extraction (OpenIE) methods are effective at extracting (noun phrase, relation phrase, noun phrase) triples from text, e.g., (Barack Obama, took birth in, Honolulu). Organization of such triples in the form of a graph with noun phrases (NPs) as nodes and relation phrases (RPs) as edges results in the construction of Open Knowledge Graphs (OpenKGs). In order to use such OpenKGs in downstream tasks, it is often desirable to learn embeddings of the NPs and RPs present in the graph. Even though several Knowledge Graph (KG) embedding methods have been recently proposed, all of those methods have targeted Ontological KGs, as opposed to OpenKGs. Straightforward application of existing Ontological KG embedding methods to OpenKGs is challenging, as unlike Ontological KGs, OpenKGs are not canonicalized, i.e., a real-world entity may be represented using multiple nodes in the OpenKG, with each node corresponding to a different NP referring to the entity. For example, nodes with labels Barack Obama, Obama, and President Obama may refer to the same real-world entity Barack Obama. Even though canonicalization of OpenKGs has received some attention lately, output of such methods has not been used to improve OpenKG embed- dings. We fill this gap in the paper and propose Canonicalization-infused Representations (CaRe) for OpenKGs. Through extensive experiments, we observe that CaRe enables existing models to adapt to the challenges in OpenKGs and achieve substantial improvements for the link prediction task.
Distance supervision is widely used in relation extraction tasks, particularly when large-scale manual annotations are virtually impossible to conduct. Although Distantly Supervised Relation Extraction (DSRE) benefits from automatic labelling, it suffers from serious mislabelling issues, i.e. some or all of the instances for an entity pair (head and tail entities) do not express the labelled relation. In this paper, we propose a novel model that employs a collaborative curriculum learning framework to reduce the effects of mislabelled data. Specifically, we firstly propose an internal self-attention mechanism between the convolution operations in convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to learn a better sentence representation from the noisy inputs. Then we define two sentence selection models as two relation extractors in order to collaboratively learn and regularise each other under a curriculum scheme to alleviate noisy effects, where the curriculum could be constructed by conflicts or small loss. Finally, experiments are conducted on a widely-used public dataset and the results indicate that the proposed model significantly outperforms baselines including the state-of-the-art in terms of P@N and PR curve metrics, thus evidencing its capability of reducing noisy effects for DSRE.
Relation extraction (RE) seeks to detect and classify semantic relationships between entities, which provides useful information for many NLP applications. Since the state-of-the-art RE models require large amounts of manually annotated data and language-specific resources to achieve high accuracy, it is very challenging to transfer an RE model of a resource-rich language to a resource-poor language. In this paper, we propose a new approach for cross-lingual RE model transfer based on bilingual word embedding mapping. It projects word embeddings from a target language to a source language, so that a well-trained source-language neural network RE model can be directly applied to the target language. Experiment results show that the proposed approach achieves very good performance for a number of target languages on both in-house and open datasets, using a small bilingual dictionary with only 1K word pairs.
Distant supervision (DS) has been widely used to automatically construct (noisy) labeled data for relation extraction (RE). Given two entities, distant supervision exploits sentences that directly mention them for predicting their semantic relation. We refer to this strategy as 1-hop DS, which unfortunately may not work well for long-tail entities with few supporting sentences. In this paper, we introduce a new strategy named 2-hop DS to enhance distantly supervised RE, based on the observation that there exist a large number of relational tables on the Web which contain entity pairs that share common relations. We refer to such entity pairs as anchors for each other, and collect all sentences that mention the anchor entity pairs of a given target entity pair to help relation prediction. We develop a new neural RE method REDS2 in the multi-instance learning paradigm, which adopts a hierarchical model structure to fuse information respectively from 1-hop DS and 2-hop DS. Extensive experimental results on a benchmark dataset show that REDS2 can consistently outperform various baselines across different settings by a substantial margin.
Rich entity representations are useful for a wide class of problems involving entities. Despite their importance, there is no standardized benchmark that evaluates the overall quality of entity representations. In this work, we propose EntEval: a test suite of diverse tasks that require nontrivial understanding of entities including entity typing, entity similarity, entity relation prediction, and entity disambiguation. In addition, we develop training techniques for learning better entity representations by using natural hyperlink annotations in Wikipedia. We identify effective objectives for incorporating the contextual information in hyperlinks into state-of-the-art pretrained language models (Peters et al., 2018) and show that they improve strong baselines on multiple EntEval tasks.
We propose a joint event and temporal relation extraction model with shared representation learning and structured prediction. The proposed method has two advantages over existing work. First, it improves event representation by allowing the event and relation modules to share the same contextualized embeddings and neural representation learner. Second, it avoids error propagation in the conventional pipeline systems by leveraging structured inference and learning methods to assign both the event labels and the temporal relation labels jointly. Experiments show that the proposed method can improve both event extraction and temporal relation extraction over state-of-the-art systems, with the end-to-end F1 improved by 10{\%} and 6.8{\%} on two benchmark datasets respectively.
While existing hierarchical text classification (HTC) methods attempt to capture label hierarchies for model training, they either make local decisions regarding each label or completely ignore the hierarchy information during inference. To solve the mismatch between training and inference as well as modeling label dependencies in a more principled way, we formulate HTC as a Markov decision process and propose to learn a Label Assignment Policy via deep reinforcement learning to determine where to place an object and when to stop the assignment process. The proposed method, HiLAP, explores the hierarchy during both training and inference time in a consistent manner and makes inter-dependent decisions. As a general framework, HiLAP can incorporate different neural encoders as base models for end-to-end training. Experiments on five public datasets and four base models show that HiLAP yields an average improvement of 33.4{\%} in Macro-F1 over flat classifiers and outperforms state-of-the-art HTC methods by a large margin. Data and code can be found at https://github.com/morningmoni/HiLAP.
As an essential component of natural language processing, text classification relies on deep learning in recent years. Various neural networks are designed for text classification on the basis of word embedding. However, polysemy is a fundamental feature of the natural language, which brings challenges to text classification. One polysemic word contains more than one sense, while the word embedding procedure conflates different senses of a polysemic word into a single vector. Extracting the distinct representation for the specific sense could thus lead to fine-grained models with strong generalization ability. It has been demonstrated that multiple senses of a word actually reside in linear superposition within the word embedding so that specific senses can be extracted from the original word embedding. Therefore, we propose to use capsule networks to construct the vectorized representation of semantics and utilize hyperplanes to decompose each capsule to acquire the specific senses. A novel dynamic routing mechanism named {`}routing-on-hyperplane{'} will select the proper sense for the downstream classification task. Our model is evaluated on 6 different datasets, and the experimental results show that our model is capable of extracting more discriminative semantic features and yields a significant performance gain compared to other baseline methods.
Multi-label text classification (MLTC) aims to tag most relevant labels for the given document. In this paper, we propose a Label-Specific Attention Network (LSAN) to learn a label-specific document representation. LSAN takes advantage of label semantic information to determine the semantic connection between labels and document for constructing label-specific document representation. Meanwhile, the self-attention mechanism is adopted to identify the label-specific document representation from document content information. In order to seamlessly integrate the above two parts, an adaptive fusion strategy is proposed, which can effectively output the comprehensive label-specific document representation to build multi-label text classifier. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that LSAN consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on four different datasets, especially on the prediction of low-frequency labels. The code and hyper-parameter settings are released to facilitate other researchers.
Most of the current effective methods for text classification tasks are based on large-scale labeled data and a great number of parameters, but when the supervised training data are few and difficult to be collected, these models are not available. In this work, we propose a hierarchical attention prototypical networks (HAPN) for few-shot text classification. We design the feature level, word level, and instance level multi cross attention for our model to enhance the expressive ability of semantic space, so it can highlight or weaken the importance of the features, words, and instances separately. We verify the effectiveness of our model on two standard benchmark few-shot text classification datasets{---}FewRel and CSID, and achieve the state-of-the-art performance. The visualization of hierarchical attention layers illustrates that our model can capture more important features, words, and instances. In addition, our attention mechanism increases support set augmentability and accelerates convergence speed in the training stage.
Feature importance is commonly used to explain machine predictions. While feature importance can be derived from a machine learning model with a variety of methods, the consistency of feature importance via different methods remains understudied. In this work, we systematically compare feature importance from built-in mechanisms in a model such as attention values and post-hoc methods that approximate model behavior such as LIME. Using text classification as a testbed, we find that 1) no matter which method we use, important features from traditional models such as SVM and XGBoost are more similar with each other, than with deep learning models; 2) post-hoc methods tend to generate more similar important features for two models than built-in methods. We further demonstrate how such similarity varies across instances. Notably, important features do not always resemble each other better when two models agree on the predicted label than when they disagree.
For text classification, traditional local feature driven models learn long dependency by deeply stacking or hybrid modeling. This paper proposes a novel Encoder1-Encoder2 architecture, where global information is incorporated into the procedure of local feature extraction from scratch. In particular, Encoder1 serves as a global information provider, while Encoder2 performs as a local feature extractor and is directly fed into the classifier. Meanwhile, two modes are also designed for their interaction. Thanks to the awareness of global information, our method is able to learn better instance specific local features and thus avoids complicated upper operations. Experiments conducted on eight benchmark datasets demonstrate that our proposed architecture promotes local feature driven models by a substantial margin and outperforms the previous best models in the fully-supervised setting.
Generative classifiers offer potential advantages over their discriminative counterparts, namely in the areas of data efficiency, robustness to data shift and adversarial examples, and zero-shot learning (Ng and Jordan,2002; Yogatama et al., 2017; Lewis and Fan,2019). In this paper, we improve generative text classifiers by introducing discrete latent variables into the generative story, and explore several graphical model configurations. We parameterize the distributions using standard neural architectures used in conditional language modeling and perform learning by directly maximizing the log marginal likelihood via gradient-based optimization, which avoids the need to do expectation-maximization. We empirically characterize the performance of our models on six text classification datasets. The choice of where to include the latent variable has a significant impact on performance, with the strongest results obtained when using the latent variable as an auxiliary conditioning variable in the generation of the textual input. This model consistently outperforms both the generative and discriminative classifiers in small-data settings. We analyze our model by finding that the latent variable captures interpretable properties of the data, even with very small training sets.
Finding the right reviewers to assess the quality of conference submissions is a time consuming process for conference organizers. Given the importance of this step, various automated reviewer-paper matching solutions have been proposed to alleviate the burden. Prior approaches including bag-of-words model and probabilistic topic model are less effective to deal with the vocabulary mismatch and partial topic overlap between the submission and reviewer. Our approach, the common topic model, jointly models the topics common to the submission and the reviewer{'}s profile while relying on abstract topic vectors. Experiments and insightful evaluations on two datasets demonstrate that the proposed method achieves consistent improvements compared to the state-of-the-art.
What information from an act of sentence understanding is robustly represented in the human brain? We investigate this question by comparing sentence encoding models on a brain decoding task, where the sentence that an experimental participant has seen must be predicted from the fMRI signal evoked by the sentence. We take a pre-trained BERT architecture as a baseline sentence encoding model and fine-tune it on a variety of natural language understanding (NLU) tasks, asking which lead to improvements in brain-decoding performance. We find that none of the sentence encoding tasks tested yield significant increases in brain decoding performance. Through further task ablations and representational analyses, we find that tasks which produce syntax-light representations yield significant improvements in brain decoding performance. Our results constrain the space of NLU models that could best account for human neural representations of language, but also suggest limits on the possibility of decoding fine-grained syntactic information from fMRI human neuroimaging.
Text summarization aims at compressing long documents into a shorter form that conveys the most important parts of the original document. Despite increased interest in the community and notable research effort, progress on benchmark datasets has stagnated. We critically evaluate key ingredients of the current research setup: datasets, evaluation metrics, and models, and highlight three primary shortcomings: 1) automatically collected datasets leave the task underconstrained and may contain noise detrimental to training and evaluation, 2) current evaluation protocol is weakly correlated with human judgment and does not account for important characteristics such as factual correctness, 3) models overfit to layout biases of current datasets and offer limited diversity in their outputs.
Traditionally, most data-to-text applications have been designed using a modular pipeline architecture, in which non-linguistic input data is converted into natural language through several intermediate transformations. By contrast, recent neural models for data-to-text generation have been proposed as end-to-end approaches, where the non-linguistic input is rendered in natural language with much less explicit intermediate representations in between. This study introduces a systematic comparison between neural pipeline and end-to-end data-to-text approaches for the generation of text from RDF triples. Both architectures were implemented making use of the encoder-decoder Gated-Recurrent Units (GRU) and Transformer, two state-of-the art deep learning methods. Automatic and human evaluations together with a qualitative analysis suggest that having explicit intermediate steps in the generation process results in better texts than the ones generated by end-to-end approaches. Moreover, the pipeline models generalize better to unseen inputs. Data and code are publicly available.
A robust evaluation metric has a profound impact on the development of text generation systems. A desirable metric compares system output against references based on their semantics rather than surface forms. In this paper we investigate strategies to encode system and reference texts to devise a metric that shows a high correlation with human judgment of text quality. We validate our new metric, namely MoverScore, on a number of text generation tasks including summarization, machine translation, image captioning, and data-to-text generation, where the outputs are produced by a variety of neural and non-neural systems. Our findings suggest that metrics combining contextualized representations with a distance measure perform the best. Such metrics also demonstrate strong generalization capability across tasks. For ease-of-use we make our metrics available as web service.
Many text generation tasks naturally contain two steps: content selection and surface realization. Current neural encoder-decoder models conflate both steps into a black-box architecture. As a result, the content to be described in the text cannot be explicitly controlled. This paper tackles this problem by decoupling content selection from the decoder. The decoupled content selection is human interpretable, whose value can be manually manipulated to control the content of generated text. The model can be trained end-to-end without human annotations by maximizing a lower bound of the marginal likelihood. We further propose an effective way to trade-off between performance and controllability with a single adjustable hyperparameter. In both data-to-text and headline generation tasks, our model achieves promising results, paving the way for controllable content selection in text generation.
Building effective text generation systems requires three critical components: content selection, text planning, and surface realization, and traditionally they are tackled as separate problems. Recent all-in-one style neural generation models have made impressive progress, yet they often produce outputs that are incoherent and unfaithful to the input. To address these issues, we present an end-to-end trained two-step generation model, where a sentence-level content planner first decides on the keyphrases to cover as well as a desired language style, followed by a surface realization decoder that generates relevant and coherent text. For experiments, we consider three tasks from domains with diverse topics and varying language styles: persuasive argument construction from Reddit, paragraph generation for normal and simple versions of Wikipedia, and abstract generation for scientific articles. Automatic evaluation shows that our system can significantly outperform competitive comparisons. Human judges further rate our system generated text as more fluent and correct, compared to the generations by its variants that do not consider language style.
We propose a Cross-lingual Encoder-Decoder model that simultaneously translates and generates sentences with Semantic Role Labeling annotations in a resource-poor target language. Unlike annotation projection techniques, our model does not need parallel data during inference time. Our approach can be applied in monolingual, multilingual and cross-lingual settings and is able to produce dependency-based and span-based SRL annotations. We benchmark the labeling performance of our model in different monolingual and multilingual settings using well-known SRL datasets. We then train our model in a cross-lingual setting to generate new SRL labeled data. Finally, we measure the effectiveness of our method by using the generated data to augment the training basis for resource-poor languages and perform manual evaluation to show that it produces high-quality sentences and assigns accurate semantic role annotations. Our proposed architecture offers a flexible method for leveraging SRL data in multiple languages.
As a fundamental NLP task, semantic role labeling (SRL) aims to discover the semantic roles for each predicate within one sentence. This paper investigates how to incorporate syntactic knowledge into the SRL task effectively. We present different approaches of en- coding the syntactic information derived from dependency trees of different quality and representations; we propose a syntax-enhanced self-attention model and compare it with other two strong baseline methods; and we con- duct experiments with newly published deep contextualized word representations as well. The experiment results demonstrate that with proper incorporation of the high quality syntactic information, our model achieves a new state-of-the-art performance for the Chinese SRL task on the CoNLL-2009 dataset.
We present VerbAtlas, a new, hand-crafted lexical-semantic resource whose goal is to bring together all verbal synsets from WordNet into semantically-coherent frames. The frames define a common, prototypical argument structure while at the same time providing new concept-specific information. In contrast to PropBank, which defines enumerative semantic roles, VerbAtlas comes with an explicit, cross-frame set of semantic roles linked to selectional preferences expressed in terms of WordNet synsets, and is the first resource enriched with semantic information about implicit, shadow, and default arguments. We demonstrate the effectiveness of VerbAtlas in the task of dependency-based Semantic Role Labeling and show how its integration into a high-performance system leads to improvements on both the in-domain and out-of-domain test sets of CoNLL-2009. VerbAtlas is available at http://verbatlas.org.
We propose a simple and robust non-parameterized approach for building sentence representations. Inspired by the Gram-Schmidt Process in geometric theory, we build an orthogonal basis of the subspace spanned by a word and its surrounding context in a sentence. We model the semantic meaning of a word in a sentence based on two aspects. One is its relatedness to the word vector subspace already spanned by its contextual words. The other is the word{'}s novel semantic meaning which shall be introduced as a new basis vector perpendicular to this existing subspace. Following this motivation, we develop an innovative method based on orthogonal basis to combine pre-trained word embeddings into sentence representations. This approach requires zero parameters, along with efficient inference performance. We evaluate our approach on 11 downstream NLP tasks. Our model shows superior performance compared with non-parameterized alternatives and it is competitive to other approaches relying on either large amounts of labelled data or prolonged training time.
Prior work on pretrained sentence embeddings and benchmarks focus on the capabilities of stand-alone sentences. We propose DiscoEval, a test suite of tasks to evaluate whether sentence representations include broader context information. We also propose a variety of training objectives that makes use of natural annotations from Wikipedia to build sentence encoders capable of modeling discourse. We benchmark sentence encoders pretrained with our proposed training objectives, as well as other popular pretrained sentence encoders on DiscoEval and other sentence evaluation tasks. Empirically, we show that these training objectives help to encode different aspects of information in document structures. Moreover, BERT and ELMo demonstrate strong performances over DiscoEval with individual hidden layers showing different characteristics.
This paper describes a new dataset and experiments to determine whether authors of tweets possess the objects they tweet about. We work with 5,000 tweets and show that both humans and neural networks benefit from images in addition to text. We also introduce a simple yet effective strategy to incorporate visual information into any neural network beyond weights from pretrained networks. Specifically, we consider the tags identified in an image as an additional textual input, and leverage pretrained word embeddings as usually done with regular text. Experimental results show this novel strategy is beneficial.
We introduce a large-scale crowdsourced text adventure game as a research platform for studying grounded dialogue. In it, agents can perceive, emote, and act whilst conducting dialogue with other agents. Models and humans can both act as characters within the game. We describe the results of training state-of-the-art generative and retrieval models in this setting. We show that in addition to using past dialogue, these models are able to effectively use the state of the underlying world to condition their predictions. In particular, we show that grounding on the details of the local environment, including location descriptions, and the objects (and their affordances) and characters (and their previous actions) present within it allows better predictions of agent behavior and dialogue. We analyze the ingredients necessary for successful grounding in this setting, and how each of these factors relate to agents that can talk and act successfully.
Mobile agents that can leverage help from humans can potentially accomplish more complex tasks than they could entirely on their own. We develop {``}Help, Anna!{''} (HANNA), an interactive photo-realistic simulator in which an agent fulfills object-finding tasks by requesting and interpreting natural language-and-vision assistance. An agent solving tasks in a HANNA environment can leverage simulated human assistants, called ANNA (Automatic Natural Navigation Assistants), which, upon request, provide natural language and visual instructions to direct the agent towards the goals. To address the HANNA problem, we develop a memory-augmented neural agent that hierarchically models multiple levels of decision-making, and an imitation learning algorithm that teaches the agent to avoid repeating past mistakes while simultaneously predicting its own chances of making future progress. Empirically, our approach is able to ask for help more effectively than competitive baselines and, thus, attains higher task success rate on both previously seen and previously unseen environments.
Language grounding is an active field aiming at enriching textual representations with visual information. Generally, textual and visual elements are embedded in the same representation space, which implicitly assumes a one-to-one correspondence between modalities. This hypothesis does not hold when representing words, and becomes problematic when used to learn sentence representations {---} the focus of this paper {---} as a visual scene can be described by a wide variety of sentences. To overcome this limitation, we propose to transfer visual information to textual representations by learning an intermediate representation space: the grounded space. We further propose two new complementary objectives ensuring that (1) sentences associated with the same visual content are close in the grounded space and (2) similarities between related elements are preserved across modalities. We show that this model outperforms the previous state-of-the-art on classification and semantic relatedness tasks.
We introduce the new Birds-to-Words dataset of 41k sentences describing fine-grained differences between photographs of birds. The language collected is highly detailed, while remaining understandable to the everyday observer (e.g., {``}heart-shaped face,{''} {``}squat body{''}). Paragraph-length descriptions naturally adapt to varying levels of taxonomic and visual distance{---}drawn from a novel stratified sampling approach{---}with the appropriate level of detail. We propose a new model called Neural Naturalist that uses a joint image encoding and comparative module to generate comparative language, and evaluate the results with humans who must use the descriptions to distinguish real images. Our results indicate promising potential for neural models to explain differences in visual embedding space using natural language, as well as a concrete path for machine learning to aid citizen scientists in their effort to preserve biodiversity.
The Entity Linking (EL) task identifies entity mentions in a text corpus and associates them with an unambiguous identifier in a Knowledge Base. While much work has been done on the topic, we first present the results of a survey that reveal a lack of consensus in the community regarding what forms of mentions in a text and what forms of links the EL task should consider. We argue that no one definition of the Entity Linking task fits all, and rather propose a fine-grained categorization of different types of entity mentions and links. We then re-annotate three EL benchmark datasets {--} ACE2004, KORE50, and VoxEL {--} with respect to these categories. We propose a fuzzy recall metric to address the lack of consensus and conclude with fine-grained evaluation results comparing a selection of online EL systems.
We propose a novel supervised open information extraction (Open IE) framework that leverages an ensemble of unsupervised Open IE systems and a small amount of labeled data to improve system performance. It uses the outputs of multiple unsupervised Open IE systems plus a diverse set of lexical and syntactic information such as word embedding, part-of-speech embedding, syntactic role embedding and dependency structure as its input features and produces a sequence of word labels indicating whether the word belongs to a relation, the arguments of the relation or irrelevant. Comparing with existing supervised Open IE systems, our approach leverages the knowledge in existing unsupervised Open IE systems to overcome the problem of insufficient training data. By employing multiple unsupervised Open IE systems, our system learns to combine the strength and avoid the weakness in each individual Open IE system. We have conducted experiments on multiple labeled benchmark data sets. Our evaluation results have demonstrated the superiority of the proposed method over existing supervised and unsupervised models by a significant margin.
The scarcity in annotated data poses a great challenge for event detection (ED). Cross-lingual ED aims to tackle this challenge by transferring knowledge between different languages to boost performance. However, previous cross-lingual methods for ED demonstrated a heavy dependency on parallel resources, which might limit their applicability. In this paper, we propose a new method for cross-lingual ED, demonstrating a minimal dependency on parallel resources. Specifically, to construct a lexical mapping between different languages, we devise a context-dependent translation method; to treat the word order difference problem, we propose a shared syntactic order event detector for multilingual co-training. The efficiency of our method is studied through extensive experiments on two standard datasets. Empirical results indicate that our method is effective in 1) performing cross-lingual transfer concerning different directions and 2) tackling the extremely annotation-poor scenario.
KnowledgeNet is a benchmark dataset for the task of automatically populating a knowledge base (Wikidata) with facts expressed in natural language text on the web. KnowledgeNet provides text exhaustively annotated with facts, thus enabling the holistic end-to-end evaluation of knowledge base population systems as a whole, unlike previous benchmarks that are more suitable for the evaluation of individual subcomponents (e.g., entity linking, relation extraction). We discuss five baseline approaches, where the best approach achieves an F1 score of 0.50, significantly outperforming a traditional approach by 79{\%} (0.28). However, our best baseline is far from reaching human performance (0.82), indicating our dataset is challenging. The KnowledgeNet dataset and baselines are available at https://github.com/diffbot/knowledge-net
Tracking entities in procedural language requires understanding the transformations arising from actions on entities as well as those entities{'} interactions. While self-attention-based pre-trained language encoders like GPT and BERT have been successfully applied across a range of natural language understanding tasks, their ability to handle the nuances of procedural texts is still unknown. In this paper, we explore the use of pre-trained transformer networks for entity tracking tasks in procedural text. First, we test standard lightweight approaches for prediction with pre-trained transformers, and find that these approaches underperforms even simple baselines. We show that much stronger results can be attained by restructuring the input to guide the model to focus on a particular entity. Second, we assess the degree to which the transformer networks capture the process dynamics, investigating such factors as merged entities and oblique entity references. On two different tasks, ingredient detection in recipes and QA over scientific processes, we achieve state-of-the-art results, but our models still largely attend to shallow context clues and do not form complex representations of intermediate process state.
Pre-training has proven to be effective in unsupervised machine translation due to its ability to model deep context information in cross-lingual scenarios. However, the cross-lingual information obtained from shared BPE spaces is inexplicit and limited. In this paper, we propose a novel cross-lingual pre-training method for unsupervised machine translation by incorporating explicit cross-lingual training signals. Specifically, we first calculate cross-lingual n-gram embeddings and infer an n-gram translation table from them. With those n-gram translation pairs, we propose a new pre-training model called Cross-lingual Masked Language Model (CMLM), which randomly chooses source n-grams in the input text stream and predicts their translation candidates at each time step. Experiments show that our method can incorporate beneficial cross-lingual information into pre-trained models. Taking pre-trained CMLM models as the encoder and decoder, we significantly improve the performance of unsupervised machine translation.
Learning target side syntactic structure has been shown to improve Neural Machine Translation (NMT). However, incorporating syntax through latent variables introduces additional complexity in inference, as the models need to marginalize over the latent syntactic structures. To avoid this, models often resort to greedy search which only allows them to explore a limited portion of the latent space. In this work, we introduce a new latent variable model, LaSyn, that captures the co-dependence between syntax and semantics, while allowing for effective and efficient inference over the latent space. LaSyn decouples direct dependence between successive latent variables, which allows its decoder to exhaustively search through the latent syntactic choices, while keeping decoding speed proportional to the size of the latent variable vocabulary. We implement LaSyn by modifying a transformer-based NMT system and design a neural expectation maximization algorithm that we regularize with part-of-speech information as the latent sequences. Evaluations on four different MT tasks show that incorporating target side syntax with LaSyn improves both translation quality, and also provides an opportunity to improve diversity.
While back-translation is simple and effective in exploiting abundant monolingual corpora to improve low-resource neural machine translation (NMT), the synthetic bilingual corpora generated by NMT models trained on limited authentic bilingual data are inevitably noisy. In this work, we propose to quantify the confidence of NMT model predictions based on model uncertainty. With word- and sentence-level confidence measures based on uncertainty, it is possible for back-translation to better cope with noise in synthetic bilingual corpora. Experiments on Chinese-English and English-German translation tasks show that uncertainty-based confidence estimation significantly improves the performance of back-translation.
In this study, we first investigate a novel capsule network with dynamic routing for linear time Neural Machine Translation (NMT), referred as CapsNMT. CapsNMT uses an aggregation mechanism to map the source sentence into a matrix with pre-determined size, and then applys a deep LSTM network to decode the target sequence from the source representation. Unlike the previous work (CITATION) to store the source sentence with a passive and bottom-up way, the dynamic routing policy encodes the source sentence with an iterative process to decide the credit attribution between nodes from lower and higher layers. CapsNMT has two core properties: it runs in time that is linear in the length of the sequences and provides a more flexible way to aggregate the part-whole information of the source sentence. On WMT14 English-German task and a larger WMT14 English-French task, CapsNMT achieves comparable results with the Transformer system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that capsule networks have been empirically investigated for sequence to sequence problems.
Entity alignment aims to find entities in different knowledge graphs (KGs) that refer to the same real-world object. An effective solution for cross-lingual entity alignment is crucial for many cross-lingual AI and NLP applications. Recently many embedding-based approaches were proposed for cross-lingual entity alignment. However, almost all of them are based on TransE or its variants, which have been demonstrated by many studies to be unsuitable for encoding multi-mapping relations such as 1-N, N-1 and N-N relations, thus these methods obtain low alignment precision. To solve this issue, we propose a new embedding-based framework. Through defining dot product-based functions over embeddings, our model can better capture the semantics of both 1-1 and multi-mapping relations. We calibrate embeddings of different KGs via a small set of pre-aligned seeds. We also propose a weighted negative sampling strategy to generate valuable negative samples during training and we regard prediction as a bidirectional problem in the end. Experimental results (especially with the metric \textit{Hits@1}) on real-world multilingual datasets show that our approach significantly outperforms many other embedding-based approaches with state-of-the-art performance.
Enabling cross-lingual NLP tasks by leveraging multilingual word embedding has recently attracted much attention. An important motivation is to support lower resourced languages, however, most efforts focus on demonstrating the effectiveness of the techniques using embeddings derived from similar languages to English with large parallel content. In this study, we first describe the general requirements for the success of these techniques and then present a noise tolerant piecewise linear technique to learn a non-linear mapping between two monolingual word embedding vector spaces. We evaluate our approach on inferring bilingual dictionaries. We show that our technique outperforms the state-of-the-art in lower resourced settings with an average of 3.7{\%} improvement of precision @10 across 14 mostly low resourced languages.
Pretrained contextual representation models (Peters et al., 2018; Devlin et al., 2018) have pushed forward the state-of-the-art on many NLP tasks. A new release of BERT (Devlin, 2018) includes a model simultaneously pretrained on 104 languages with impressive performance for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer on a natural language inference task. This paper explores the broader cross-lingual potential of mBERT (multilingual) as a zero shot language transfer model on 5 NLP tasks covering a total of 39 languages from various language families: NLI, document classification, NER, POS tagging, and dependency parsing. We compare mBERT with the best-published methods for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer and find mBERT competitive on each task. Additionally, we investigate the most effective strategy for utilizing mBERT in this manner, determine to what extent mBERT generalizes away from language specific features, and measure factors that influence cross-lingual transfer.
Previous studies on the domain adaptation for neural machine translation (NMT) mainly focus on the one-pass transferring out-of-domain translation knowledge to in-domain NMT model. In this paper, we argue that such a strategy fails to fully extract the domain-shared translation knowledge, and repeatedly utilizing corpora of different domains can lead to better distillation of domain-shared translation knowledge. To this end, we propose an iterative dual domain adaptation framework for NMT. Specifically, we first pretrain in-domain and out-of-domain NMT models using their own training corpora respectively, and then iteratively perform bidirectional translation knowledge transfer (from in-domain to out-of-domain and then vice versa) based on knowledge distillation until the in-domain NMT model convergences. Furthermore, we extend the proposed framework to the scenario of multiple out-of-domain training corpora, where the above-mentioned transfer is performed sequentially between the in-domain and each out-of-domain NMT models in the ascending order of their domain similarities. Empirical results on Chinese-English and English-German translation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework.
Conventional Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models benefit from the training with an additional agent, e.g., dual learning, and bidirectional decoding with one agent decod- ing from left to right and the other decoding in the opposite direction. In this paper, we extend the training framework to the multi-agent sce- nario by introducing diverse agents in an in- teractive updating process. At training time, each agent learns advanced knowledge from others, and they work together to improve translation quality. Experimental results on NIST Chinese-English, IWSLT 2014 German- English, WMT 2014 English-German and large-scale Chinese-English translation tasks indicate that our approach achieves absolute improvements over the strong baseline sys- tems and shows competitive performance on all tasks.
We present effective pre-training strategies for neural machine translation (NMT) using parallel corpora involving a pivot language, i.e., source-pivot and pivot-target, leading to a significant improvement in source-target translation. We propose three methods to increase the relation among source, pivot, and target languages in the pre-training: 1) step-wise training of a single model for different language pairs, 2) additional adapter component to smoothly connect pre-trained encoder and decoder, and 3) cross-lingual encoder training via autoencoding of the pivot language. Our methods greatly outperform multilingual models up to +2.6{\%} BLEU in WMT 2019 French-German and German-Czech tasks. We show that our improvements are valid also in zero-shot/zero-resource scenarios.
Modern sentence-level NMT systems often produce plausible translations of isolated sentences. However, when put in context, these translations may end up being inconsistent with each other. We propose a monolingual DocRepair model to correct inconsistencies between sentence-level translations. DocRepair performs automatic post-editing on a sequence of sentence-level translations, refining translations of sentences in context of each other. For training, the DocRepair model requires only monolingual document-level data in the target language. It is trained as a monolingual sequence-to-sequence model that maps inconsistent groups of sentences into consistent ones. The consistent groups come from the original training data; the inconsistent groups are obtained by sampling round-trip translations for each isolated sentence. We show that this approach successfully imitates inconsistencies we aim to fix: using contrastive evaluation, we show large improvements in the translation of several contextual phenomena in an English-Russian translation task, as well as improvements in the BLEU score. We also conduct a human evaluation and show a strong preference of the annotators to corrected translations over the baseline ones. Moreover, we analyze which discourse phenomena are hard to capture using monolingual data only.
Current state-of-the-art neural machine translation (NMT) uses a deep multi-head self-attention network with no explicit phrase information. However, prior work on statistical machine translation has shown that extending the basic translation unit from words to phrases has produced substantial improvements, suggesting the possibility of improving NMT performance from explicit modeling of phrases. In this work, we present \textit{multi-granularity self-attention} (Mg-Sa): a neural network that combines multi-head self-attention and phrase modeling. Specifically, we train several attention heads to attend to phrases in either n-gram or syntactic formalisms. Moreover, we exploit interactions among phrases to enhance the strength of structure modeling {--} a commonly-cited weakness of self-attention. Experimental results on WMT14 English-to-German and NIST Chinese-to-English translation tasks show the proposed approach consistently improves performance. Targeted linguistic analysis reveal that Mg-Sa indeed captures useful phrase information at various levels of granularities.
The general trend in NLP is towards increasing model capacity and performance via deeper neural networks. However, simply stacking more layers of the popular Transformer architecture for machine translation results in poor convergence and high computational overhead. Our empirical analysis suggests that convergence is poor due to gradient vanishing caused by the interaction between residual connection and layer normalization. We propose depth-scaled initialization (DS-Init), which decreases parameter variance at the initialization stage, and reduces output variance of residual connections so as to ease gradient back-propagation through normalization layers. To address computational cost, we propose a merged attention sublayer (MAtt) which combines a simplified average-based self-attention sublayer and the encoder-decoder attention sublayer on the decoder side. Results on WMT and IWSLT translation tasks with five translation directions show that deep Transformers with DS-Init and MAtt can substantially outperform their base counterpart in terms of BLEU (+1.1 BLEU on average for 12-layer models), while matching the decoding speed of the baseline model thanks to the efficiency improvements of MAtt. Source code for reproduction will be released soon.
We introduce a novel discriminative word alignment model, which we integrate into a Transformer-based machine translation model. In experiments based on a small number of labeled examples (∼1.7K{--}5K sentences) we evaluate its performance intrinsically on both English-Chinese and English-Arabic alignment, where we achieve major improvements over unsupervised baselines (11{--}27 F1). We evaluate the model extrinsically on data projection for Chinese NER, showing that our alignments lead to higher performance when used to project NER tags from English to Chinese. Finally, we perform an ablation analysis and an annotation experiment that jointly support the utility and feasibility of future manual alignment elicitation.
Zero pronouns (ZPs) are frequently omitted in pro-drop languages, but should be recalled in non-pro-drop languages. This discourse phenomenon poses a significant challenge for machine translation (MT) when translating texts from pro-drop to non-pro-drop languages. In this paper, we propose a unified and discourse-aware ZP translation approach for neural MT models. Specifically, we jointly learn to predict and translate ZPs in an end-to-end manner, allowing both components to interact with each other. In addition, we employ hierarchical neural networks to exploit discourse-level context, which is beneficial for ZP prediction and thus translation. Experimental results on both Chinese-English and Japanese-English data show that our approach significantly and accumulatively improves both translation performance and ZP prediction accuracy over not only baseline but also previous works using external ZP prediction models. Extensive analyses confirm that the performance improvement comes from the alleviation of different kinds of errors especially caused by subjective ZPs.
Previous studies have shown that neural machine translation (NMT) models can benefit from explicitly modeling translated () and untranslated () source contents as recurrent states (CITATION). However, this less interpretable recurrent process hinders its power to model the dynamic updating of and contents during decoding. In this paper, we propose to model the \textit{dynamic principles} by explicitly separating source words into groups of translated and untranslated contents through parts-to-wholes assignment. The assignment is learned through a novel variant of routing-by-agreement mechanism (CITATION), namely \textit{Guided Dynamic Routing}, where the translating status at each decoding step \textit{guides} the routing process to assign each source word to its associated group (i.e., translated or untranslated content) represented by a capsule, enabling translation to be made from holistic context. Experiments show that our approach achieves substantial improvements over both Rnmt and Transformer by producing more adequate translations. Extensive analysis demonstrates that our method is highly interpretable, which is able to recognize the translated and untranslated contents as expected.
While achieving great fluency, current machine translation (MT) techniques are bottle-necked by adequacy issues. To have a closer study of these issues and accelerate model development, we propose automatic detecting adequacy errors in MT hypothesis for MT model evaluation. To do that, we annotate missing and wrong translations, the two most prevalent issues for current neural machine translation model, in 15000 Chinese-English translation pairs. We build a supervised alignment model for translation error detection (AlignDet) based on a simple Alignment Triangle strategy to set the benchmark for automatic error detection task. We also discuss the difficulties of this task and the benefits of this task for existing evaluation metrics.
Although neural machine translation (NMT) has advanced the state-of-the-art on various language pairs, the interpretability of NMT remains unsatisfactory. In this work, we propose to address this gap by focusing on understanding the input-output behavior of NMT models. Specifically, we measure the word importance by attributing the NMT output to every input word through a gradient-based method. We validate the approach on a couple of perturbation operations, language pairs, and model architectures, demonstrating its superiority on identifying input words with higher influence on translation performance. Encouragingly, the calculated importance can serve as indicators of input words that are under-translated by NMT models. Furthermore, our analysis reveals that words of certain syntactic categories have higher importance while the categories vary across language pairs, which can inspire better design principles of NMT architectures for multi-lingual translation.
Multilingual neural machine translation (NMT), which translates multiple languages using a single model, is of great practical importance due to its advantages in simplifying the training process, reducing online maintenance costs, and enhancing low-resource and zero-shot translation. Given there are thousands of languages in the world and some of them are very different, it is extremely burdensome to handle them all in a single model or use a separate model for each language pair. Therefore, given a fixed resource budget, e.g., the number of models, how to determine which languages should be supported by one model is critical to multilingual NMT, which, unfortunately, has been ignored by previous work. In this work, we develop a framework that clusters languages into different groups and trains one multilingual model for each cluster. We study two methods for language clustering: (1) using prior knowledge, where we cluster languages according to language family, and (2) using language embedding, in which we represent each language by an embedding vector and cluster them in the embedding space. In particular, we obtain the embedding vectors of all the languages by training a universal neural machine translation model. Our experiments on 23 languages show that the first clustering method is simple and easy to understand but leading to suboptimal translation accuracy, while the second method sufficiently captures the relationship among languages well and improves the translation accuracy for almost all the languages over baseline methods.
Human translators routinely have to translate rare inflections of words {--} due to the Zipfian distribution of words in a language. When translating from Spanish, a good translator would have no problem identifying the proper translation of a statistically rare inflection such as habl{\'a}ramos. Note the lexeme itself, hablar, is relatively common. In this work, we investigate whether state-of-the-art bilingual lexicon inducers are capable of learning this kind of generalization. We introduce 40 morphologically complete dictionaries in 10 languages and evaluate three of the best performing models on the task of translation of less frequent morphological forms. We demonstrate that the performance of state-of-the-art models drops considerably when evaluated on infrequent morphological inflections and then show that adding a simple morphological constraint at training time improves the performance, proving that the bilingual lexicon inducers can benefit from better encoding of morphology.
Recent years have seen exceptional strides in the task of automatic morphological inflection generation. However, for a long tail of languages the necessary resources are hard to come by, and state-of-the-art neural methods that work well under higher resource settings perform poorly in the face of a paucity of data. In response, we propose a battery of improvements that greatly improve performance under such low-resource conditions. First, we present a novel two-step attention architecture for the inflection decoder. In addition, we investigate the effects of cross-lingual transfer from single and multiple languages, as well as monolingual data hallucination. The macro-averaged accuracy of our models outperforms the state-of-the-art by 15 percentage points. Also, we identify the crucial factors for success with cross-lingual transfer for morphological inflection: typological similarity and a common representation across languages.
Treebank translation is a promising method for cross-lingual transfer of syntactic dependency knowledge. The basic idea is to map dependency arcs from a source treebank to its target translation according to word alignments. This method, however, can suffer from imperfect alignment between source and target words. To address this problem, we investigate syntactic transfer by code mixing, translating only confident words in a source treebank. Cross-lingual word embeddings are leveraged for transferring syntactic knowledge to the target from the resulting code-mixed treebank. Experiments on University Dependency Treebanks show that code-mixed treebanks are more effective than translated treebanks, giving highly competitive performances among cross-lingual parsing methods.
Transition-based top-down parsing with pointer networks has achieved state-of-the-art results in multiple parsing tasks, while having a linear time complexity. However, the decoder of these parsers has a sequential structure, which does not yield the most appropriate inductive bias for deriving tree structures. In this paper, we propose hierarchical pointer network parsers, and apply them to dependency and sentence-level discourse parsing tasks. Our results on standard benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, outperforming existing methods and setting a new state-of-the-art.
The successful application of neural networks to a variety of NLP tasks has provided strong impetus to develop end-to-end models for semantic role labeling which forego the need for extensive feature engineering. Recent approaches rely on high-quality annotations which are costly to obtain, and mostly unavailable in low resource scenarios (e.g., rare languages or domains). Our work aims to reduce the annotation effort involved via semi-supervised learning. We propose an end-to-end SRL model and demonstrate it can effectively leverage unlabeled data under the cross-view training modeling paradigm. Our LSTM-based semantic role labeler is jointly trained with a sentence learner, which performs POS tagging, dependency parsing, and predicate identification which we argue are critical to learning directly from unlabeled data without recourse to external pre-processing tools. Experimental results on the CoNLL-2009 benchmark dataset show that our model outperforms the state of the art in English, and consistently improves performance in other languages, including Chinese, German, and Spanish.
Previous work on cross-lingual sequence labeling tasks either requires parallel data or bridges the two languages through word-by-word matching. Such requirements and assumptions are infeasible for most languages, especially for languages with large linguistic distances, e.g., English and Chinese. In this work, we propose a Multilingual Language Model with deep semantic Alignment (MLMA) to generate language-independent representations for cross-lingual sequence labeling. Our methods require only monolingual corpora with no bilingual resources at all and take advantage of deep contextualized representations. Experimental results show that our approach achieves new state-of-the-art NER and POS performance across European languages, and is also effective on distant language pairs such as English and Chinese.
Recurrent neural networks (RNN) used for Chinese named entity recognition (NER) that sequentially track character and word information have achieved great success. However, the characteristic of chain structure and the lack of global semantics determine that RNN-based models are vulnerable to word ambiguities. In this work, we try to alleviate this problem by introducing a lexicon-based graph neural network with global semantics, in which lexicon knowledge is used to connect characters to capture the local composition, while a global relay node can capture global sentence semantics and long-range dependency. Based on the multiple graph-based interactions among characters, potential words, and the whole-sentence semantics, word ambiguities can be effectively tackled. Experiments on four NER datasets show that the proposed model achieves significant improvements against other baseline models.
Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) mainly involves two tasks, intent detection and slot filling, which are generally modeled jointly in existing works. However, most existing models fail to fully utilize cooccurrence relations between slots and intents, which restricts their potential performance. To address this issue, in this paper we propose a novel Collaborative Memory Network (CM-Net) based on the well-designed block, named CM-block. The CM-block firstly captures slot-specific and intent-specific features from memories in a collaborative manner, and then uses these enriched features to enhance local context representations, based on which the sequential information flow leads to more specific (slot and intent) global utterance representations. Through stacking multiple CM-blocks, our CM-Net is able to alternately perform information exchange among specific memories, local contexts and the global utterance, and thus incrementally enriches each other. We evaluate the CM-Net on two standard benchmarks (ATIS and SNIPS) and a self-collected corpus (CAIS). Experimental results show that the CM-Net achieves the state-of-the-art results on the ATIS and SNIPS in most of criteria, and significantly outperforms the baseline models on the CAIS. Additionally, we make the CAIS dataset publicly available for the research community.
Pre-training Transformer from large-scale raw texts and fine-tuning on the desired task have achieved state-of-the-art results on diverse NLP tasks. However, it is unclear what the learned attention captures. The attention computed by attention heads seems not to match human intuitions about hierarchical structures. This paper proposes Tree Transformer, which adds an extra constraint to attention heads of the bidirectional Transformer encoder in order to encourage the attention heads to follow tree structures. The tree structures can be automatically induced from raw texts by our proposed {``}Constituent Attention{''} module, which is simply implemented by self-attention between two adjacent words. With the same training procedure identical to BERT, the experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of Tree Transformer in terms of inducing tree structures, better language modeling, and further learning more explainable attention scores.
Modern state-of-the-art Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) methods rely on expressive sentence encoders (e.g., multi-layer LSTMs) but tend to model only local (if any) interactions between individual argument labeling decisions. This contrasts with earlier work and also with the intuition that the labels of individual arguments are strongly interdependent. We model interactions between argument labeling decisions through iterative refinement. Starting with an output produced by a factorized model, we iteratively refine it using a refinement network. Instead of modeling arbitrary interactions among roles and words, we encode prior knowledge about the SRL problem by designing a restricted network architecture capturing non-local interactions. This modeling choice prevents overfitting and results in an effective model, outperforming strong factorized baseline models on all 7 CoNLL-2009 languages, and achieving state-of-the-art results on 5 of them, including English.
Although over 100 languages are supported by strong off-the-shelf machine translation systems, only a subset of them possess large annotated corpora for named entity recognition. Motivated by this fact, we leverage machine translation to improve annotation-projection approaches to cross-lingual named entity recognition. We propose a system that improves over prior entity-projection methods by: (a) leveraging machine translation systems twice: first for translating sentences and subsequently for translating entities; (b) matching entities based on orthographic and phonetic similarity; and (c) identifying matches based on distributional statistics derived from the dataset. Our approach improves upon current state-of-the-art methods for cross-lingual named entity recognition on 5 diverse languages by an average of 4.1 points. Further, our method achieves state-of-the-art F{\_}1 scores for Armenian, outperforming even a monolingual model trained on Armenian source data.
Current methods for sequence tagging, a core task in NLP, are data hungry, which motivates the use of crowdsourcing as a cheap way to obtain labelled data. However, annotators are often unreliable and current aggregation methods cannot capture common types of span annotation error. To address this, we propose a Bayesian method for aggregating sequence tags that reduces errors by modelling sequential dependencies between the annotations as well as the ground-truth labels. By taking a Bayesian approach, we account for uncertainty in the model due to both annotator errors and the lack of data for modelling annotators who complete few tasks. We evaluate our model on crowdsourced data for named entity recognition, information extraction and argument mining, showing that our sequential model outperforms the previous state of the art, and that Bayesian approaches outperform non-Bayesian alternatives. We also find that our approach can reduce crowdsourcing costs through more effective active learning, as it better captures uncertainty in the sequence labels when there are few annotations.
Parsers are available for only a handful of the world{'}s languages, since they require lots of training data. How far can we get with just a small amount of training data? We systematically compare a set of simple strategies for improving low-resource parsers: data augmentation, which has not been tested before; cross-lingual training; and transliteration. Experimenting on three typologically diverse low-resource languages{---}North S{\'a}mi, Galician, and Kazah{---}We find that (1) when only the low-resource treebank is available, data augmentation is very helpful; (2) when a related high-resource treebank is available, cross-lingual training is helpful and complements data augmentation; and (3) when the high-resource treebank uses a different writing system, transliteration into a shared orthographic spaces is also very helpful.
Prior work on cross-lingual dependency parsing often focuses on capturing the commonalities between source and target languages and overlook the potential to leverage the linguistic properties of the target languages to facilitate the transfer. In this paper, we show that weak supervisions of linguistic knowledge for the target languages can improve a cross-lingual graph-based dependency parser substantially. Specifically, we explore several types of corpus linguistic statistics and compile them into corpus-statistics constraints to facilitate the inference procedure. We propose new algorithms that adapt two techniques, Lagrangian relaxation and posterior regularization, to conduct inference with corpus-statistics constraints. Experiments show that the Lagrangian relaxation and posterior regularization techniques improve the performances on 15 and 17 out of 19 target languages, respectively. The improvements are especially large for the target languages that have different word order features from the source language.
Computing devices have recently become capable of interacting with their end users via natural language. However, they can only operate within a limited {``}supported{''} domain of discourse and fail drastically when faced with an out-of-domain utterance, mainly due to the limitations of their semantic parser. In this paper, we propose a semantic parser that generalizes to out-of-domain examples by learning a general strategy for parsing an unseen utterance through adapting the logical forms of seen utterances, instead of learning to generate a logical form from scratch. Our parser maintains a memory consisting of a representative subset of the seen utterances paired with their logical forms. Given an unseen utterance, our parser works by looking up a similar utterance from the memory and adapting its logical form until it fits the unseen utterance. Moreover, we present a data generation strategy for constructing utterance-logical form pairs from different domains. Our results show an improvement of up to 68.8{\%} on one-shot parsing under two different evaluation settings compared to the baselines.
The segmentation problem is one of the fundamental challenges associated with name entity recognition (NER) tasks that aim to reduce the boundary error when detecting a sequence of entity words. A considerable number of advanced approaches have been proposed and most of them exhibit performance deterioration when entities become longer. Inspired by previous work in which a multi-task strategy is used to solve segmentation problems, we design a similarity based auxiliary classifier (SAC), which can distinguish entity words from non-entity words. Unlike conventional classifiers, SAC uses vectors to indicate tags. Therefore, SAC can calculate the similarities between words and tags, and then compute a weighted sum of the tag vectors, which can be considered a useful feature for NER tasks. Empirical results are used to verify the rationality of the SAC structure and demonstrate the SAC model{'}s potential in performance improvement against our baseline approaches.
This paper describes a method of variable beam size inference for Recurrent Neural Network Grammar (rnng) by drawing inspiration from sequential Monte-Carlo methods such as particle filtering. The paper studies the relevance of such methods for speeding up the computations of direct generative parsing for rnng. But it also studies the potential cognitive interpretation of the underlying representations built by the search method (beam activity) through analysis of neuro-imaging signal.
Crowdsourcing has been the prevalent paradigm for creating natural language understanding datasets in recent years. A common crowdsourcing practice is to recruit a small number of high-quality workers, and have them massively generate examples. Having only a few workers generate the majority of examples raises concerns about data diversity, especially when workers freely generate sentences. In this paper, we perform a series of experiments showing these concerns are evident in three recent NLP datasets. We show that model performance improves when training with annotator identifiers as features, and that models are able to recognize the most productive annotators. Moreover, we show that often models do not generalize well to examples from annotators that did not contribute to the training set. Our findings suggest that annotator bias should be monitored during dataset creation, and that test set annotators should be disjoint from training set annotators.
We design a generic framework for learning a robust text classification model that achieves high accuracy under different selection budgets (a.k.a selection rates) at test-time. We take a different approach from existing methods and learn to dynamically filter a large fraction of unimportant words by a low-complexity selector such that any high-complexity state-of-art classifier only needs to process a small fraction of text, relevant for the target task. To this end, we propose a data aggregation method to train the classifier, allowing it to achieve competitive performance on fractured sentences. On four benchmark text classification tasks, we demonstrate that the framework gains consistent speedup with little degradation in accuracy on various selection budgets.
Inferring commonsense knowledge is a key challenge in machine learning. Due to the sparsity of training data, previous work has shown that supervised methods for commonsense knowledge mining underperform when evaluated on novel data. In this work, we develop a method for generating commonsense knowledge using a large, pre-trained bidirectional language model. By transforming relational triples into masked sentences, we can use this model to rank a triple{'}s validity by the estimated pointwise mutual information between the two entities. Since we do not update the weights of the bidirectional model, our approach is not biased by the coverage of any one commonsense knowledge base. Though we do worse on a held-out test set than models explicitly trained on a corresponding training set, our approach outperforms these methods when mining commonsense knowledge from new sources, suggesting that our unsupervised technique generalizes better than current supervised approaches.
Neural models for NLP typically use large numbers of parameters to reach state-of-the-art performance, which can lead to excessive memory usage and increased runtime. We present a structure learning method for learning sparse, parameter-efficient NLP models. Our method applies group lasso to rational RNNs (Peng et al., 2018), a family of models that is closely connected to weighted finite-state automata (WFSAs). We take advantage of rational RNNs{'} natural grouping of the weights, so the group lasso penalty directly removes WFSA states, substantially reducing the number of parameters in the model. Our experiments on a number of sentiment analysis datasets, using both GloVe and BERT embeddings, show that our approach learns neural structures which have fewer parameters without sacrificing performance relative to parameter-rich baselines. Our method also highlights the interpretable properties of rational RNNs. We show that sparsifying such models makes them easier to visualize, and we present models that rely exclusively on as few as three WFSAs after pruning more than 90{\%} of the weights. We publicly release our code.
Word embeddings are useful for a wide variety of tasks, but they lack interpretability. By rotating word spaces, interpretable dimensions can be identified while preserving the information contained in the embeddings without any loss. In this work, we investigate three methods for making word spaces interpretable by rotation: Densifier (Rothe et al., 2016), linear SVMs and DensRay, a new method we propose. In contrast to Densifier, DensRay can be computed in closed form, is hyperparameter-free and thus more robust than Densifier. We evaluate the three methods on lexicon induction and set-based word analogy. In addition we provide qualitative insights as to how interpretable word spaces can be used for removing gender bias from embeddings.
Learning general representations of text is a fundamental problem for many natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. Previously, researchers have proposed to use language model pre-training and multi-task learning to learn robust representations. However, these methods can achieve sub-optimal performance in low-resource scenarios. Inspired by the recent success of optimization-based meta-learning algorithms, in this paper, we explore the model-agnostic meta-learning algorithm (MAML) and its variants for low-resource NLU tasks. We validate our methods on the GLUE benchmark and show that our proposed models can outperform several strong baselines. We further empirically demonstrate that the learned representations can be adapted to new tasks efficiently and effectively.
Contextualized word embeddings, such as ELMo, provide meaningful representations for words and their contexts. They have been shown to have a great impact on downstream applications. However, we observe that the contextualized embeddings of a word might change drastically when its contexts are paraphrased. As these embeddings are over-sensitive to the context, the downstream model may make different predictions when the input sentence is paraphrased. To address this issue, we propose a post-processing approach to retrofit the embedding with paraphrases. Our method learns an orthogonal transformation on the input space of the contextualized word embedding model, which seeks to minimize the variance of word representations on paraphrased contexts. Experiments show that the proposed method significantly improves ELMo on various sentence classification and inference tasks.
Semantic similarity modeling is central to many NLP problems such as natural language inference and question answering. Syntactic structures interact closely with semantics in learning compositional representations and alleviating long-range dependency issues. How-ever, such structure priors have not been well exploited in previous work for semantic mod-eling. To examine their effectiveness, we start with the Pairwise Word Interaction Model, one of the best models according to a recent reproducibility study, then introduce components for modeling context and structure using multi-layer BiLSTMs and TreeLSTMs. In addition, we introduce residual connections to the deep convolutional neural network component of the model. Extensive evaluations on eight benchmark datasets show that incorporating structural information contributes to consistent improvements over strong baselines.
Whereas traditional cryptography encrypts a secret message into an unintelligible form, steganography conceals that communication is taking place by encoding a secret message into a cover signal. Language is a particularly pragmatic cover signal due to its benign occurrence and independence from any one medium. Traditionally, linguistic steganography systems encode secret messages in existing text via synonym substitution or word order rearrangements. Advances in neural language models enable previously impractical generation-based techniques. We propose a steganography technique based on arithmetic coding with large-scale neural language models. We find that our approach can generate realistic looking cover sentences as evaluated by humans, while at the same time preserving security by matching the cover message distribution with the language model distribution.
ROUGE is widely used to automatically evaluate summarization systems. However, ROUGE measures semantic overlap between a system summary and a human reference on word-string level, much at odds with the contemporary treatment of semantic meaning. Here we present a suite of experiments on using distributed representations for evaluating summarizers, both in reference-based and in reference-free setting. Our experimental results show that the max value over each dimension of the summary ELMo word embeddings is a good representation that results in high correlation with human ratings. Averaging the cosine similarity of all encoders we tested yields high correlation with manual scores in reference-free setting. The distributed representations outperform ROUGE in recent corpora for abstractive news summarization but are less good on test data used in past evaluations.
Attention plays a key role in the improvement of sequence-to-sequence-based document summarization models. To obtain a powerful attention helping with reproducing the most salient information and avoiding repetitions, we augment the vanilla attention model from both local and global aspects. We propose attention refinement unit paired with local variance loss to impose supervision on the attention model at each decoding step, and we also propose a global variance loss to optimize the attention distributions of all decoding steps from the global perspective. The performances on CNN/Daily Mail dataset verify the effectiveness of our methods.
Unresolved coreference is a bottleneck for relation extraction, and high-quality coreference resolvers may produce an output that makes it a lot easier to extract knowledge triples. We show how to improve coreference resolvers by forwarding their input to a relation extraction system and reward the resolvers for producing triples that are found in knowledge bases. Since relation extraction systems can rely on different forms of supervision and be biased in different ways, we obtain the best performance, improving over the state of the art, using multi-task reinforcement learning.
Multilingual topic models (MTMs) learn topics on documents in multiple languages. Past models align topics across languages by implicitly assuming the documents in different languages are highly comparable, often a false assumption. We introduce a new model that does not rely on this assumption, particularly useful in important low-resource language scenarios. Our MTM learns weighted topic links and connects cross-lingual topics only when the dominant words defining them are similar, outperforming LDA and previous MTMs in classification tasks using documents{'} topic posteriors as features. It also learns coherent topics on documents with low comparability.
Socio-economic conditions are difficult to measure. For example, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics needs to conduct large-scale household surveys regularly to track the unemployment rate, an indicator widely used by economists and policymakers. We argue that events reported in streaming news can be used as {``}micro-sensors{''} for measuring socio-economic conditions. Similar to collecting surveys and then counting answers, it is possible to measure a socio-economic indicator by counting related events. In this paper, we propose Event-Centric Indicator Measure (ECIM), a novel approach to measure socio-economic indicators with events. We empirically demonstrate strong correlation between ECIM values to several representative indicators in socio-economic research.
We introduce a new dataset consisting of natural language interactions annotated with medical family histories, obtained during interactions with a genetic counselor and through crowdsourcing, following a questionnaire created by experts in the domain. We describe the data collection process and the annotations performed by medical professionals, including illness and personal attributes (name, age, gender, family relationships) for the patient and their family members. An initial system that performs argument identification and relation extraction shows promising results {--} average F-score of 0.87 on complex sentences on the targeted relations.
In task-oriented dialogues, Natural Language Generation (NLG) is the final yet crucial step to produce user-facing system utterances. The result of NLG is directly related to the perceived quality and usability of a dialogue system. While most existing systems provide semantically correct responses given goals to present, they struggle to match the variation and fluency in the human language. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-task learning framework, NLG-LM, for natural language generation. In addition to generating high-quality responses conveying the required information, it also explicitly targets for naturalness in generated responses via an unconditioned language model. This can significantly improve the learning of style and variation in human language. Empirical results show that this multi-task learning framework outperforms previous models across multiple datasets. For example, it improves the previous best BLEU score on the E2E-NLG dataset by 2.2{\%}, and on the Laptop dataset by 6.1{\%}.
Variational encoder-decoders have achieved well-recognized performance in the dialogue generation task. Existing works simply assume the Gaussian priors of the latent variable, which are incapable of representing complex latent variables effectively. To address the issues, we propose to use the Dirichlet distribution with flexible structures to characterize the latent variables in place of the traditional Gaussian distribution, called Dirichlet Latent Variable Hierarchical Recurrent Encoder-Decoder model (Dir-VHRED). Based on which, we further find that there is redundancy among the dimensions of latent variable, and the lengths and sentence patterns of the responses can be strongly correlated to each dimension of the latent variable. Therefore, controllable responses can be generated through specifying the value of each dimension of the latent variable. Experimental results on benchmarks show that our proposed Dir-VHRED yields substantial improvements on negative log-likelihood, word-embedding-based and human evaluations.
Dialogue systems benefit greatly from optimizing on detailed annotations, such as transcribed utterances, internal dialogue state representations and dialogue act labels. However, collecting these annotations is expensive and time-consuming, holding back development in the area of dialogue modelling. In this paper, we investigate semi-supervised learning methods that are able to reduce the amount of required intermediate labelling. We find that by leveraging un-annotated data instead, the amount of turn-level annotations of dialogue state can be significantly reduced when building a neural dialogue system. Our analysis on the MultiWOZ corpus, covering a range of domains and topics, finds that annotations can be reduced by up to 30{\%} while maintaining equivalent system performance. We also describe and evaluate the first end-to-end dialogue model created for the MultiWOZ corpus.
Semantic slot filling is one of the major tasks in spoken language understanding (SLU). After a slot filling model is trained on precollected data, it is crucial to continually improve the model after deployment to learn users{'} new expressions. As the data amount grows, it becomes infeasible to either store such huge data and repeatedly retrain the model on all data or fine tune the model only on new data without forgetting old expressions. In this paper, we introduce a novel progressive slot filling model, ProgModel. ProgModel consists of a novel context gate that transfers previously learned knowledge to a small size expanded component; and meanwhile enables this new component to be fast trained to learn from new data. As such, ProgModel learns the new knowledge by only using new data at each time and meanwhile preserves the previously learned expressions. Our experiments show that ProgModel needs much less training time and smaller model size to outperform various model fine tuning competitors by up to 4.24{\%} and 3.03{\%} on two benchmark datasets.
Natural Language Understanding (NLU) is a core component of dialog systems. It typically involves two tasks - Intent Classification (IC) and Slot Labeling (SL), which are then followed by a dialogue management (DM) component. Such NLU systems cater to utterances in isolation, thus pushing the problem of context management to DM. However, contextual information is critical to the correct prediction of intents in a conversation. Prior work on contextual NLU has been limited in terms of the types of contextual signals used and the understanding of their impact on the model. In this work, we propose a context-aware self-attentive NLU (CASA-NLU) model that uses multiple signals over a variable context window, such as previous intents, slots, dialog acts and utterances, in addition to the current user utterance. CASA-NLU outperforms a recurrent contextual NLU baseline on two conversational datasets, yielding a gain of up to 7{\%} on the IC task. Moreover, a non-contextual variant of CASA-NLU achieves state-of-the-art performance on standard public datasets - SNIPS and ATIS.
We study how to sample negative examples to automatically construct a training set for effective model learning in retrieval-based dialogue systems. Following an idea of dynamically adapting negative examples to matching models in learning, we consider four strategies including minimum sampling, maximum sampling, semi-hard sampling, and decay-hard sampling. Empirical studies on two benchmarks with three matching models indicate that compared with the widely used random sampling strategy, although the first two strategies lead to performance drop, the latter two ones can bring consistent improvement to the performance of all the models on both benchmarks.
Despite the surging demands for multilingual task-oriented dialog systems (e.g., Alexa, Google Home), there has been less research done in multilingual or cross-lingual scenarios. Hence, we propose a zero-shot adaptation of task-oriented dialogue system to low-resource languages. To tackle this challenge, we first use a set of very few parallel word pairs to refine the aligned cross-lingual word-level representations. We then employ a latent variable model to cope with the variance of similar sentences across different languages, which is induced by imperfect cross-lingual alignments and inherent differences in languages. Finally, the experimental results show that even though we utilize much less external resources, our model achieves better adaptation performance for natural language understanding task (i.e., the intent detection and slot filling) compared to the current state-of-the-art model in the zero-shot scenario.
Dialogue management (DM) plays a key role in the quality of the interaction with the user in a task-oriented dialogue system. In most existing approaches, the agent predicts only one DM policy action per turn. This significantly limits the expressive power of the conversational agent and introduces unwanted turns of interactions that may challenge users{'} patience. Longer conversations also lead to more errors and the system needs to be more robust to handle them. In this paper, we compare the performance of several models on the task of predicting multiple acts for each turn. A novel policy model is proposed based on a recurrent cell called gated Continue-Act-Slots (gCAS) that overcomes the limitations of the existing models. Experimental results show that gCAS outperforms other approaches. The datasets and code are available at https://leishu02.github.io/.
Task-oriented dialog systems need to know when a query falls outside their range of supported intents, but current text classification corpora only define label sets that cover every example. We introduce a new dataset that includes queries that are out-of-scope{---}i.e., queries that do not fall into any of the system{'}s supported intents. This poses a new challenge because models cannot assume that every query at inference time belongs to a system-supported intent class. Our dataset also covers 150 intent classes over 10 domains, capturing the breadth that a production task-oriented agent must handle. We evaluate a range of benchmark classifiers on our dataset along with several different out-of-scope identification schemes. We find that while the classifiers perform well on in-scope intent classification, they struggle to identify out-of-scope queries. Our dataset and evaluation fill an important gap in the field, offering a way of more rigorously and realistically benchmarking text classification in task-driven dialog systems.
Automatic data augmentation (AutoAugment) (Cubuk et al., 2019) searches for optimal perturbation policies via a controller trained using performance rewards of a sampled policy on the target task, hence reducing data-level model bias. While being a powerful algorithm, their work has focused on computer vision tasks, where it is comparatively easy to apply imperceptible perturbations without changing an image{'}s semantic meaning. In our work, we adapt AutoAugment to automatically discover effective perturbation policies for natural language processing (NLP) tasks such as dialogue generation. We start with a pool of atomic operations that apply subtle semantic-preserving perturbations to the source inputs of a dialogue task (e.g., different POS-tag types of stopword dropout, grammatical errors, and paraphrasing). Next, we allow the controller to learn more complex augmentation policies by searching over the space of the various combinations of these atomic operations. Moreover, we also explore conditioning the controller on the source inputs of the target task, since certain strategies may not apply to inputs that do not contain that strategy{'}s required linguistic features. Empirically, we demonstrate that both our input-agnostic and input-aware controllers discover useful data augmentation policies, and achieve significant improvements over the previous state-of-the-art, including trained on manually-designed policies.
The preprocessing pipelines in Natural Language Processing usually involve a step of removing sentences consisted of illegal characters. The definition of illegal characters and the specific removal strategy depend on the task, language, domain, etc, which often lead to tiresome and repetitive scripting of rules. In this paper, we introduce a simple statistical method, uniblock, to overcome this problem. For each sentence, uniblock generates a fixed-size feature vector using Unicode block information of the characters. A Gaussian mixture model is then estimated on some clean corpus using variational inference. The learned model can then be used to score sentences and filter corpus. We present experimental results on Sentiment Analysis, Language Modeling and Machine Translation, and show the simplicity and effectiveness of our method.
Current multilingual word translation methods are focused on jointly learning mappings from each language to a shared space. The actual translation, however, is still performed as an isolated bilingual task. In this study we propose a multilingual translation procedure that uses all the learned mappings to translate a word from one language to another. For each source word, we first search for the most relevant auxiliary languages. We then use the translations to these languages to form an improved representation of the source word. Finally, this representation is used for the actual translation to the target language. Experiments on a standard multilingual word translation benchmark demonstrate that our model outperforms state of the art results.
Recent studies have shown that a hybrid of self-attention networks (SANs) and recurrent neural networks RNNs outperforms both individual architectures, while not much is known about why the hybrid models work. With the belief that modeling hierarchical structure is an essential complementary between SANs and RNNs, we propose to further enhance the strength of hybrid models with an advanced variant of RNNs {--} Ordered Neurons LSTM (ON-LSTM), which introduces a syntax-oriented inductive bias to perform tree-like composition. Experimental results on the benchmark machine translation task show that the proposed approach outperforms both individual architectures and a standard hybrid model. Further analyses on targeted linguistic evaluation and logical inference tasks demonstrate that the proposed approach indeed benefits from a better modeling of hierarchical structure.
We introduce Vecalign, a novel bilingual sentence alignment method which is linear in time and space with respect to the number of sentences being aligned and which requires only bilingual sentence embeddings. On a standard German{--}French test set, Vecalign outperforms the previous state-of-the-art method (which has quadratic time complexity and requires a machine translation system) by 5 F1 points. It substantially outperforms the popular Hunalign toolkit at recovering Bible verse alignments in medium- to low-resource language pairs, and it improves downstream MT quality by 1.7 and 1.6 BLEU in Sinhala-English and Nepali-English, respectively, compared to the Hunalign-based Paracrawl pipeline.
Simultaneous translation is widely useful but remains challenging. Previous work falls into two main categories: (a) fixed-latency policies such as Ma et al. (2019) and (b) adaptive policies such as Gu et al. (2017). The former are simple and effective, but have to aggressively predict future content due to diverging source-target word order; the latter do not anticipate, but suffer from unstable and inefficient training. To combine the merits of both approaches, we propose a simple supervised-learning framework to learn an adaptive policy from oracle READ/WRITE sequences generated from parallel text. At each step, such an oracle sequence chooses to WRITE the next target word if the available source sentence context provides enough information to do so, otherwise READ the next source word. Experiments on German{\textless}={\textgreater}English show that our method, without retraining the underlying NMT model, can learn flexible policies with better BLEU scores and similar latencies compared to previous work.
Contextual word embeddings (e.g. GPT, BERT, ELMo, etc.) have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on various NLP tasks. Recent work with the multilingual version of BERT has shown that the model performs surprisingly well in cross-lingual settings, even when only labeled English data is used to finetune the model. We improve upon multilingual BERT{'}s zero-resource cross-lingual performance via adversarial learning. We report the magnitude of the improvement on the multilingual MLDoc text classification and CoNLL 2002/2003 named entity recognition tasks. Furthermore, we show that language-adversarial training encourages BERT to align the embeddings of English documents and their translations, which may be the cause of the observed performance gains.
In the Transformer network architecture, positional embeddings are used to encode order dependencies into the input representation. However, this input representation only involves static order dependencies based on discrete numerical information, that is, are independent of word content. To address this issue, this work proposes a recurrent positional embedding approach based on word vector. In this approach, these recurrent positional embeddings are learned by a recurrent neural network, encoding word content-based order dependencies into the input representation. They are then integrated into the existing multi-head self-attention model as independent heads or part of each head. The experimental results revealed that the proposed approach improved translation performance over that of the state-of-the-art Transformer baseline in WMT{'}14 English-to-German and NIST Chinese-to-English translation tasks.
We propose a neural machine translation (NMT) approach that, instead of pursuing adequacy and fluency ({``}human-oriented{''} quality criteria), aims to generate translations that are best suited as input to a natural language processing component designed for a specific downstream task (a {``}machine-oriented{''} criterion). Towards this objective, we present a reinforcement learning technique based on a new candidate sampling strategy, which exploits the results obtained on the downstream task as weak feedback. Experiments in sentiment classification of Twitter data in German and Italian show that feeding an English classifier with {``}machine-oriented{''} translations significantly improves its performance. Classification results outperform those obtained with translations produced by general-purpose NMT models as well as by an approach based on reinforcement learning. Moreover, our results on both languages approximate the classification accuracy computed on gold standard English tweets.
Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) is an unsupervised sub-word tokenization technique, commonly used in neural machine translation and other NLP tasks. Its effectiveness makes it a de facto standard, but the reasons for this are not well understood. We link BPE to the broader family of dictionary-based compression algorithms and compare it with other members of this family. Our experiments across datasets, language pairs, translation models, and vocabulary size show that - given a fixed vocabulary size budget - the fewer tokens an algorithm needs to cover the test set, the better the translation (as measured by BLEU).
Bilingual lexicons are valuable resources used by professional human translators. While these resources can be easily incorporated in statistical machine translation, it is unclear how to best do so in the neural framework. In this work, we present the HABLex dataset, designed to test methods for bilingual lexicon integration into neural machine translation. Our data consists of human generated alignments of words and phrases in machine translation test sets in three language pairs (Russian-English, Chinese-English, and Korean-English), resulting in clean bilingual lexicons which are well matched to the reference. We also present two simple baselines - constrained decoding and continued training - and an improvement to continued training to address overfitting.
Despite impressive empirical successes of neural machine translation (NMT) on standard benchmarks, limited parallel data impedes the application of NMT models to many language pairs. Data augmentation methods such as back-translation make it possible to use monolingual data to help alleviate these issues, but back-translation itself fails in extreme low-resource scenarios, especially for syntactically divergent languages. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective solution, whereby target-language sentences are re-ordered to match the order of the source and used as an additional source of training-time supervision. Experiments with simulated low-resource Japanese-to-English, and real low-resource Uyghur-to-English scenarios find significant improvements over other semi-supervised alternatives.
Beam search is universally used in (full-sentence) machine translation but its application to simultaneous translation remains highly non-trivial, where output words are committed on the fly. In particular, the recently proposed wait-k policy (Ma et al., 2018) is a simple and effective method that (after an initial wait) commits one output word on receiving each input word, making beam search seemingly inapplicable. To address this challenge, we propose a new speculative beam search algorithm that hallucinates several steps into the future in order to reach a more accurate decision by implicitly benefiting from a target language model. This idea makes beam search applicable for the first time to the generation of a single word in each step. Experiments over diverse language pairs show large improvement compared to previous work.
Although self-attention networks (SANs) have advanced the state-of-the-art on various NLP tasks, one criticism of SANs is their ability of encoding positions of input words (Shaw et al., 2018). In this work, we propose to augment SANs with structural position representations to model the latent structure of the input sentence, which is complementary to the standard sequential positional representations. Specifically, we use dependency tree to represent the grammatical structure of a sentence, and propose two strategies to encode the positional relationships among words in the dependency tree. Experimental results on NIST Chinese-to-English and WMT14 English-to-German translation tasks show that the proposed approach consistently boosts performance over both the absolute and relative sequential position representations.
This paper highlights the impressive utility of multi-parallel corpora for transfer learning in a one-to-many low-resource neural machine translation (NMT) setting. We report on a systematic comparison of multistage fine-tuning configurations, consisting of (1) pre-training on an external large (209k{--}440k) parallel corpus for English and a helping target language, (2) mixed pre-training or fine-tuning on a mixture of the external and low-resource (18k) target parallel corpora, and (3) pure fine-tuning on the target parallel corpora. Our experiments confirm that multi-parallel corpora are extremely useful despite their scarcity and content-wise redundancy thus exhibiting the true power of multilingualism. Even when the helping target language is not one of the target languages of our concern, our multistage fine-tuning can give 3{--}9 BLEU score gains over a simple one-to-one model.
The recent success of neural machine translation models relies on the availability of high quality, in-domain data. Domain adaptation is required when domain-specific data is scarce or nonexistent. Previous unsupervised domain adaptation strategies include training the model with in-domain copied monolingual or back-translated data. However, these methods use generic representations for text regardless of domain shift, which makes it infeasible for translation models to control outputs conditional on a specific domain. In this work, we propose an approach that adapts models with domain-aware feature embeddings, which are learned via an auxiliary language modeling task. Our approach allows the model to assign domain-specific representations to words and output sentences in the desired domain. Our empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed strategy, achieving consistent improvements in multiple experimental settings. In addition, we show that combining our method with back translation can further improve the performance of the model.
Grammar induction aims to discover syntactic structures from unannotated sentences. In this paper, we propose a framework in which the learning process of the grammar model of one language is influenced by knowledge from the model of another language. Unlike previous work on multilingual grammar induction, our approach does not rely on any external resource, such as parallel corpora, word alignments or linguistic phylogenetic trees. We propose three regularization methods that encourage similarity between model parameters, dependency edge scores, and parse trees respectively. We deploy our methods on a state-of-the-art unsupervised discriminative parser and evaluate it on both transfer grammar induction and bilingual grammar induction. Empirical results on multiple languages show that our methods outperform strong baselines.
Neural machine translation (NMT) has achieved new state-of-the-art performance in translating ambiguous words. However, it is still unclear which component dominates the process of disambiguation. In this paper, we explore the ability of NMT encoders and decoders to disambiguate word senses by evaluating hidden states and investigating the distributions of self-attention. We train a classifier to predict whether a translation is correct given the representation of an ambiguous noun. We find that encoder hidden states outperform word embeddings significantly which indicates that encoders adequately encode relevant information for disambiguation into hidden states. In contrast to encoders, the effect of decoder is different in models with different architectures. Moreover, the attention weights and attention entropy show that self-attention can detect ambiguous nouns and distribute more attention to the context.
Korean morphological analysis has been considered as a sequence of morpheme processing and POS tagging. Thus, a pipeline model of the tasks has been adopted widely by previous studies. However, the model has a problem that it cannot utilize interactions among the tasks. This paper formulates Korean morphological analysis as a combination of the tasks and presents a tied sequence-to-sequence multi-task model for training the two tasks simultaneously without any explicit regularization. The experiments prove the proposed model achieves the state-of-the-art performance.
Diacritic restoration has gained importance with the growing need for machines to understand written texts. The task is typically modeled as a sequence labeling problem and currently Bidirectional Long Short Term Memory (BiLSTM) models provide state-of-the-art results. Recently, Bai et al. (2018) show the advantages of Temporal Convolutional Neural Networks (TCN) over Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) for sequence modeling in terms of performance and computational resources. As diacritic restoration benefits from both previous as well as subsequent timesteps, we further apply and evaluate a variant of TCN, Acausal TCN (A-TCN), which incorporates context from both directions (previous and future) rather than strictly incorporating previous context as in the case of TCN. A-TCN yields significant improvement over TCN for diacritization in three different languages: Arabic, Yoruba, and Vietnamese. Furthermore, A-TCN and BiLSTM have comparable performance, making A-TCN an efficient alternative over BiLSTM since convolutions can be trained in parallel. A-TCN is significantly faster than BiLSTM at inference time (270{\%} 334{\%} improvement in the amount of text diacritized per minute).
Prior work on training generative Visual Dialog models with reinforcement learning ((Das et al., ICCV 2017) has explored a Q-Bot-A-Bot image-guessing game and shown that this {`}self-talk{'} approach can lead to improved performance at the downstream dialog-conditioned image-guessing task. However, this improvement saturates and starts degrading after a few rounds of interaction, and does not lead to a better Visual Dialog model. We find that this is due in part to repeated interactions between Q-Bot and A-BOT during self-talk, which are not informative with respect to the image. To improve this, we devise a simple auxiliary objective that incentivizes Q-Bot to ask diverse questions, thus reducing repetitions and in turn enabling A-Bot to explore a larger state space during RL i.e. be exposed to more visual concepts to talk about, and varied questions to answer. We evaluate our approach via a host of automatic metrics and human studies, and demonstrate that it leads to better dialog, i.e. dialog that is more diverse (i.e. less repetitive), consistent (i.e. has fewer conflicting exchanges), fluent (i.e., more human-like), and detailed, while still being comparably image-relevant as prior work and ablations.
A typical cross-lingual transfer learning approach boosting model performance on a language is to pre-train the model on all available supervised data from another language. However, in large-scale systems this leads to high training times and computational requirements. In addition, characteristic differences between the source and target languages raise a natural question of whether source data selection can improve the knowledge transfer. In this paper, we address this question and propose a simple but effective language model based source-language data selection method for cross-lingual transfer learning in large-scale spoken language understanding. The experimental results show that with data selection i) source data and hence training speed is reduced significantly and ii) model performance is improved.
With the aim of promoting and understanding the multilingual version of image search, we leverage visual object detection and propose a model with diverse multi-head attention to learn grounded multilingual multimodal representations. Specifically, our model attends to different types of textual semantics in two languages and visual objects for fine-grained alignments between sentences and images. We introduce a new objective function which explicitly encourages attention diversity to learn an improved visual-semantic embedding space. We evaluate our model in the German-Image and English-Image matching tasks on the Multi30K dataset, and in the Semantic Textual Similarity task with the English descriptions of visual content. Results show that our model yields a significant performance gain over other methods in all of the three tasks.
Object detection plays an important role in current solutions to vision and language tasks like image captioning and visual question answering. However, popular models like Faster R-CNN rely on a costly process of annotating ground-truths for both the bounding boxes and their corresponding semantic labels, making it less amenable as a primitive task for transfer learning. In this paper, we examine the effect of decoupling box proposal and featurization for down-stream tasks. The key insight is that this allows us to leverage a large amount of labeled annotations that were previously unavailable for standard object detection benchmarks. Empirically, we demonstrate that this leads to effective transfer learning and improved image captioning and visual question answering models, as measured on publicly-available benchmarks.
Popular metrics used for evaluating image captioning systems, such as BLEU and CIDEr, provide a single score to gauge the system{'}s overall effectiveness. This score is often not informative enough to indicate what specific errors are made by a given system. In this study, we present a fine-grained evaluation method REO for automatically measuring the performance of image captioning systems. REO assesses the quality of captions from three perspectives: 1) Relevance to the ground truth, 2) Extraness of the content that is irrelevant to the ground truth, and 3) Omission of the elements in the images and human references. Experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method achieves a higher consistency with human judgments and provides more intuitive evaluation results than alternative metrics.
We propose weakly supervised language localization networks (WSLLN) to detect events in long, untrimmed videos given language queries. To learn the correspondence between visual segments and texts, most previous methods require temporal coordinates (start and end times) of events for training, which leads to high costs of annotation. WSLLN relieves the annotation burden by training with only video-sentence pairs without accessing to temporal locations of events. With a simple end-to-end structure, WSLLN measures segment-text consistency and conducts segment selection (conditioned on the text) simultaneously. Results from both are merged and optimized as a video-sentence matching problem. Experiments on ActivityNet Captions and DiDeMo demonstrate that WSLLN achieves state-of-the-art performance.
Grounding is crucial for natural language understanding. An important subtask is to understand modified color expressions, such as {``}light blue{''}. We present a model of color modifiers that, compared with previous additive models in RGB space, learns more complex transformations. In addition, we present a model that operates in the HSV color space. We show that certain adjectives are better modeled in that space. To account for all modifiers, we train a hard ensemble model that selects a color space depending on the modifier-color pair. Experimental results show significant and consistent improvements compared to the state-of-the-art baseline model.
Core to the vision-and-language navigation (VLN) challenge is building robust instruction representations and action decoding schemes, which can generalize well to previously unseen instructions and environments. In this paper, we report two simple but highly effective methods to address these challenges and lead to a new state-of-the-art performance. First, we adapt large-scale pretrained language models to learn text representations that generalize better to previously unseen instructions. Second, we propose a stochastic sampling scheme to reduce the considerable gap between the expert actions in training and sampled actions in test, so that the agent can learn to correct its own mistakes during long sequential action decoding. Combining the two techniques, we achieve a new state of the art on the Room-to-Room benchmark with 6{\%} absolute gain over the previous best result (47{\%} -{\textgreater} 53{\%}) on the Success Rate weighted by Path Length metric.
We explore whether it is possible to leverage eye-tracking data in an RNN dependency parser (for English) when such information is only available during training - i.e. no aggregated or token-level gaze features are used at inference time. To do so, we train a multitask learning model that parses sentences as sequence labeling and leverages gaze features as auxiliary tasks. Our method also learns to train from disjoint datasets, i.e. it can be used to test whether already collected gaze features are useful to improve the performance on new non-gazed annotated treebanks. Accuracy gains are modest but positive, showing the feasibility of the approach. It can serve as a first step towards architectures that can better leverage eye-tracking data or other complementary information available only for training sentences, possibly leading to improvements in syntactic parsing.
Understanding text often requires identifying meaningful constituent spans such as noun phrases and verb phrases. In this work, we show that we can effectively recover these types of labels using the learned phrase vectors from deep inside-outside recursive autoencoders (DIORA). Specifically, we cluster span representations to induce span labels. Additionally, we improve the model{'}s labeling accuracy by integrating latent code learning into the training procedure. We evaluate this approach empirically through unsupervised labeled constituency parsing. Our method outperforms ELMo and BERT on two versions of the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) dataset and is competitive to prior work that requires additional human annotations, improving over a previous state-of-the-art system that depends on ground-truth part-of-speech tags by 5 absolute F1 points (19{\%} relative error reduction).
Dependency parsing of conversational input can play an important role in language understanding for dialog systems by identifying the relationships between entities extracted from user utterances. Additionally, effective dependency parsing can elucidate differences in language structure and usage for discourse analysis of human-human versus human-machine dialogs. However, models trained on datasets based on news articles and web data do not perform well on spoken human-machine dialog, and currently available annotation schemes do not adapt well to dialog data. Therefore, we propose the Spoken Conversation Universal Dependencies (SCUD) annotation scheme that extends the Universal Dependencies (UD) (Nivre et al., 2016) guidelines to spoken human-machine dialogs. We also provide ConvBank, a conversation dataset between humans and an open-domain conversational dialog system with SCUD annotation. Finally, to demonstrate the utility of the dataset, we train a dependency parser on the ConvBank dataset. We demonstrate that by pre-training a dependency parser on a set of larger public datasets and fine-tuning on ConvBank data, we achieved the best result, 85.05{\%} unlabeled and 77.82{\%} labeled attachment accuracy.
We propose a semantic parser for parsing compositional utterances into Task Oriented Parse (TOP), a tree representation that has intents and slots as labels of nesting tree nodes. Our parser is span-based: it scores labels of the tree nodes covering each token span independently, but then decodes a valid tree globally. In contrast to previous sequence decoding approaches and other span-based parsers, we (1) improve the training speed by removing the need to run the decoder at training time; and (2) introduce edge scores, which model relations between parent and child labels, to mitigate the independence assumption between node labels and improve accuracy. Our best parser outperforms previous methods on the TOP dataset of mixed-domain task-oriented utterances in both accuracy and training speed.
Context modeling is essential to generate coherent and consistent translation for Document-level Neural Machine Translations. The widely used method for document-level translation usually compresses the context information into a representation via hierarchical attention networks. However, this method neither considers the relationship between context words nor distinguishes the roles of context words. To address this problem, we propose a query-guided capsule networks to cluster context information into different perspectives from which the target translation may concern. Experiment results show that our method can significantly outperform strong baselines on multiple data sets of different domains.
Fine-tuning pre-trained Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models is the dominant approach for adapting to new languages and domains. However, fine-tuning requires adapting and maintaining a separate model for each target task. We propose a simple yet efficient approach for adaptation in NMT. Our proposed approach consists of injecting tiny task specific adapter layers into a pre-trained model. These lightweight adapters, with just a small fraction of the original model size, adapt the model to multiple individual tasks simultaneously. We evaluate our approach on two tasks: (i) Domain Adaptation and (ii) Massively Multilingual NMT. Experiments on domain adaptation demonstrate that our proposed approach is on par with full fine-tuning on various domains, dataset sizes and model capacities. On a massively multilingual dataset of 103 languages, our adaptation approach bridges the gap between individual bilingual models and one massively multilingual model for most language pairs, paving the way towards universal machine translation.
This work introduces a machine translation task where the output is aimed at audiences of different levels of target language proficiency. We collect a high quality dataset of news articles available in English and Spanish, written for diverse grade levels and propose a method to align segments across comparable bilingual articles. The resulting dataset makes it possible to train multi-task sequence to sequence models that can translate and simplify text jointly. We show that these multi-task models outperform pipeline approaches that translate and simplify text independently.
Multilingual Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models have yielded large empirical success in transfer learning settings. However, these black-box representations are poorly understood, and their mode of transfer remains elusive. In this work, we attempt to understand massively multilingual NMT representations (with 103 languages) using Singular Value Canonical Correlation Analysis (SVCCA), a representation similarity framework that allows us to compare representations across different languages, layers and models. Our analysis validates several empirical results and long-standing intuitions, and unveils new observations regarding how representations evolve in a multilingual translation model. We draw three major results from our analysis, with implications on cross-lingual transfer learning: (i) Encoder representations of different languages cluster based on linguistic similarity, (ii) Representations of a source language learned by the encoder are dependent on the target language, and vice-versa, and (iii) Representations of high resource and/or linguistically similar languages are more robust when fine-tuning on an arbitrary language pair, which is critical to determining how much cross-lingual transfer can be expected in a zero or few-shot setting. We further connect our findings with existing empirical observations in multilingual NMT and transfer learning.
Document-level machine translation (MT) remains challenging due to the difficulty in efficiently using document context for translation. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical model to learn the global context for document-level neural machine translation (NMT). This is done through a sentence encoder to capture intra-sentence dependencies and a document encoder to model document-level inter-sentence consistency and coherence. With this hierarchical architecture, we feedback the extracted global document context to each word in a top-down fashion to distinguish different translations of a word according to its specific surrounding context. In addition, since large-scale in-domain document-level parallel corpora are usually unavailable, we use a two-step training strategy to take advantage of a large-scale corpus with out-of-domain parallel sentence pairs and a small-scale corpus with in-domain parallel document pairs to achieve the domain adaptability. Experimental results on several benchmark corpora show that our proposed model can significantly improve document-level translation performance over several strong NMT baselines.
Though the community has made great progress on Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) task, most of the previous works are solving English-based MRC problems, and there are few efforts on other languages mainly due to the lack of large-scale training data.In this paper, we propose Cross-Lingual Machine Reading Comprehension (CLMRC) task for the languages other than English. Firstly, we present several back-translation approaches for CLMRC task which is straightforward to adopt. However, to exactly align the answer into source language is difficult and could introduce additional noise. In this context, we propose a novel model called Dual BERT, which takes advantage of the large-scale training data provided by rich-resource language (such as English) and learn the semantic relations between the passage and question in bilingual context, and then utilize the learned knowledge to improve reading comprehension performance of low-resource language. We conduct experiments on two Chinese machine reading comprehension datasets CMRC 2018 and DRCD. The results show consistent and significant improvements over various state-of-the-art systems by a large margin, which demonstrate the potentials in CLMRC task. Resources available: https://github.com/ymcui/Cross-Lingual-MRC
Rapid progress has been made in the field of reading comprehension and question answering, where several systems have achieved human parity in some simplified settings. However, the performance of these models degrades significantly when they are applied to more realistic scenarios, such as answers involve various types, multiple text strings are correct answers, or discrete reasoning abilities are required. In this paper, we introduce the Multi-Type Multi-Span Network (MTMSN), a neural reading comprehension model that combines a multi-type answer predictor designed to support various answer types (e.g., span, count, negation, and arithmetic expression) with a multi-span extraction method for dynamically producing one or multiple text spans. In addition, an arithmetic expression reranking mechanism is proposed to rank expression candidates for further confirming the prediction. Experiments show that our model achieves 79.9 F1 on the DROP hidden test set, creating new state-of-the-art results. Source code (https://github.com/huminghao16/MTMSN) is released to facilitate future work.
Supervised training of neural models to duplicate question detection in community Question Answering (CQA) requires large amounts of labeled question pairs, which can be costly to obtain. To minimize this cost, recent works thus often used alternative methods, e.g., adversarial domain adaptation. In this work, we propose two novel methods{---}weak supervision using the title and body of a question, and the automatic generation of duplicate questions{---}and show that both can achieve improved performances even though they do not require any labeled data. We provide a comparison of popular training strategies and show that our proposed approaches are more effective in many cases because they can utilize larger amounts of data from the CQA forums. Finally, we show that weak supervision with question title and body information is also an effective method to train CQA answer selection models without direct answer supervision.
The ability to ask clarification questions is essential for knowledge-based question answering (KBQA) systems, especially for handling ambiguous phenomena. Despite its importance, clarification has not been well explored in current KBQA systems. Further progress requires supervised resources for training and evaluation, and powerful models for clarification-related text understanding and generation. In this paper, we construct a new clarification dataset, CLAQUA, with nearly 40K open-domain examples. The dataset supports three serial tasks: given a question, identify whether clarification is needed; if yes, generate a clarification question; then predict answers base on external user feedback. We provide representative baselines for these tasks and further introduce a coarse-to-fine model for clarification question generation. Experiments show that the proposed model achieves better performance than strong baselines. The further analysis demonstrates that our dataset brings new challenges and there still remain several unsolved problems, like reasonable automatic evaluation metrics for clarification question generation and powerful models for handling entity sparsity.
We address the problem of Duplicate Question Detection (DQD) in low-resource domain-specific Community Question Answering forums. Our multi-view framework MV-DASE combines an ensemble of sentence encoders via Generalized Canonical Correlation Analysis, using unlabeled data only. In our experiments, the ensemble includes generic and domain-specific averaged word embeddings, domain-finetuned BERT and the Universal Sentence Encoder. We evaluate MV-DASE on the CQADupStack corpus and on additional low-resource Stack Exchange forums. Combining the strengths of different encoders, we significantly outperform BM25, all single-view systems as well as a recent supervised domain-adversarial DQD method.
Sexism, an injustice that subjects women and girls to enormous suffering, manifests in blatant as well as subtle ways. In the wake of growing documentation of experiences of sexism on the web, the automatic categorization of accounts of sexism has the potential to assist social scientists and policy makers in utilizing such data to study and counter sexism better. The existing work on sexism classification, which is different from sexism detection, has certain limitations in terms of the categories of sexism used and/or whether they can co-occur. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on the multi-label classification of sexism of any kind(s), and we contribute the largest dataset for sexism categorization. We develop a neural solution for this multi-label classification that can combine sentence representations obtained using models such as BERT with distributional and linguistic word embeddings using a flexible, hierarchical architecture involving recurrent components and optional convolutional ones. Further, we leverage unlabeled accounts of sexism to infuse domain-specific elements into our framework. The best proposed method outperforms several deep learning as well as traditional machine learning baselines by an appreciable margin.
The sequence of documents produced by any given author varies in style and content, but some documents are more typical or representative of the source than others. We quantify the extent to which a given short text is characteristic of a specific person, using a dataset of tweets from fifteen celebrities. Such analysis is useful for generating excerpts of high-volume Twitter profiles, and understanding how representativeness relates to tweet popularity. We first consider the related task of binary author detection (is x the author of text T?), and report a test accuracy of 90.37{\%} for the best of five approaches to this problem. We then use these models to compute characterization scores among all of an author{'}s texts. A user study shows human evaluators agree with our characterization model for all 15 celebrities in our dataset, each with p-value {\textless} 0.05. We use these classifiers to show surprisingly strong correlations between characterization scores and the popularity of the associated texts. Indeed, we demonstrate a statistically significant correlation between this score and tweet popularity (likes/replies/retweets) for 13 of the 15 celebrities in our study.
Microaggressions are subtle, often veiled, manifestations of human biases. These uncivil interactions can have a powerful negative impact on people by marginalizing minorities and disadvantaged groups. The linguistic subtlety of microaggressions in communication has made it difficult for researchers to analyze their exact nature, and to quantify and extract microaggressions automatically. Specifically, the lack of a corpus of real-world microaggressions and objective criteria for annotating them have prevented researchers from addressing these problems at scale. In this paper, we devise a general but nuanced, computationally operationalizable typology of microaggressions based on a small subset of data that we have. We then create two datasets: one with examples of diverse types of microaggressions recollected by their targets, and another with gender-based microaggressions in public conversations on social media. We introduce a new, more objective, criterion for annotation and an active-learning based procedure that increases the likelihood of surfacing posts containing microaggressions. Finally, we analyze the trends that emerge from these new datasets.
To automatically assess the helpfulness of a customer review online, conventional approaches generally acquire various linguistic and neural embedding features solely from the textual content of the review itself as the evidence. We, however, find out that a helpful review is largely concerned with the metadata (such as the name, the brand, the category, etc.) of its target product. It leaves us with a challenge of how to choose the correct key-value product metadata to help appraise the helpfulness of free-text reviews more precisely. To address this problem, we propose a novel framework composed of two mutual-benefit modules. Given a product, a selector (agent) learns from both the keys in the product metadata and one of its reviews to take an action that selects the correct value, and a successive predictor (network) makes the free-text review attend to this value to obtain better neural representations for helpfulness assessment. The predictor is directly optimized by SGD with the loss of helpfulness prediction, and the selector could be updated via policy gradient rewarded with the performance of the predictor. We use two real-world datasets from Amazon.com and Yelp.com, respectively, to compare the performance of our framework with other mainstream methods under two application scenarios: helpfulness identification and regression of customer reviews. Extensive results demonstrate that our framework can achieve state-of-the-art performance with substantial improvements.
The evolution of social media users{'} behavior over time complicates user-level comparison tasks such as verification, classification, clustering, and ranking. As a result, naive approaches may fail to generalize to new users or even to future observations of previously known users. In this paper, we propose a novel procedure to learn a mapping from short episodes of user activity on social media to a vector space in which the distance between points captures the similarity of the corresponding users{'} invariant features. We fit the model by optimizing a surrogate metric learning objective over a large corpus of unlabeled social media content. Once learned, the mapping may be applied to users not seen at training time and enables efficient comparisons of users in the resulting vector space. We present a comprehensive evaluation to validate the benefits of the proposed approach using data from Reddit, Twitter, and Wikipedia.
Stylistic variation in text needs to be studied with different aspects including the writer{'}s personal traits, interpersonal relations, rhetoric, and more. Despite recent attempts on computational modeling of the variation, the lack of parallel corpora of style language makes it difficult to systematically control the stylistic change as well as evaluate such models. We release PASTEL, the parallel and annotated stylistic language dataset, that contains {\textasciitilde}41K parallel sentences (8.3K parallel stories) annotated across different personas. Each persona has different styles in conjunction: gender, age, country, political view, education, ethnic, and time-of-writing. The dataset is collected from human annotators with solid control of input denotation: not only preserving original meaning between text, but promoting stylistic diversity to annotators. We test the dataset on two interesting applications of style language, where PASTEL helps design appropriate experiment and evaluation. First, in predicting a target style (e.g., male or female in gender) given a text, multiple styles of PASTEL make other external style variables controlled (or fixed), which is a more accurate experimental design. Second, a simple supervised model with our parallel text outperforms the unsupervised models using nonparallel text in style transfer. Our dataset is publicly available.
According to screenwriting theory, turning points (e.g., change of plans, major setback, climax) are crucial narrative moments within a screenplay: they define the plot structure, determine its progression and segment the screenplay into thematic units (e.g., setup, complications, aftermath). We propose the task of turning point identification in movies as a means of analyzing their narrative structure. We argue that turning points and the segmentation they provide can facilitate processing long, complex narratives, such as screenplays, for summarization and question answering. We introduce a dataset consisting of screenplays and plot synopses annotated with turning points and present an end-to-end neural network model that identifies turning points in plot synopses and projects them onto scenes in screenplays. Our model outperforms strong baselines based on state-of-the-art sentence representations and the expected position of turning points.
Despite detection of suicidal ideation on social media has made great progress in recent years, people{'}s implicitly and anti-real contrarily expressed posts still remain as an obstacle, constraining the detectors to acquire higher satisfactory performance. Enlightened by the hidden {``}tree holes{''} phenomenon on microblog, where people at suicide risk tend to disclose their inner real feelings and thoughts to the microblog space whose authors have committed suicide, we explore the use of tree holes to enhance microblog-based suicide risk detection from the following two perspectives. (1) We build suicide-oriented word embeddings based on tree hole contents to strength the sensibility of suicide-related lexicons and context based on tree hole contents. (2) A two-layered attention mechanism is deployed to grasp intermittently changing points from individual{'}s open blog streams, revealing one{'}s inner emotional world more or less. Our experimental results show that with suicide-oriented word embeddings and attention, microblog-based suicide risk detection can achieve over 91{\%} accuracy. A large-scale well-labelled suicide data set is also reported in the paper.
Many pledges are made in the course of an election campaign, forming important corpora for political analysis of campaign strategy and governmental accountability. At present, there are no publicly available annotated datasets of pledges, and most political analyses rely on manual annotations. In this paper we collate a novel dataset of manifestos from eleven Australian federal election cycles, with over 12,000 sentences annotated with specificity (e.g., rhetorical vs detailed pledge) on a fine-grained scale. We propose deep ordinal regression approaches for specificity prediction, under both supervised and semi-supervised settings, and provide empirical results demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed techniques over several baseline approaches. We analyze the utility of pledge specificity modeling across a spectrum of policy issues in performing ideology prediction, and further provide qualitative analysis in terms of capturing party-specific issue salience across election cycles.
Goal-oriented dialogue systems are now being widely adopted in industry where it is of key importance to maintain a rapid prototyping cycle for new products and domains. Data-driven dialogue system development has to be adapted to meet this requirement {---} therefore, reducing the amount of data and annotations necessary for training such systems is a central research problem. In this paper, we present the Dialogue Knowledge Transfer Network (DiKTNet), a state-of-the-art approach to goal-oriented dialogue generation which only uses a few example dialogues (i.e. few-shot learning), none of which has to be annotated. We achieve this by performing a 2-stage training. Firstly, we perform unsupervised dialogue representation pre-training on a large source of goal-oriented dialogues in multiple domains, the MetaLWOz corpus. Secondly, at the transfer stage, we train DiKTNet using this representation together with 2 other textual knowledge sources with different levels of generality: ELMo encoder and the main dataset{'}s source domains. Our main dataset is the Stanford Multi-Domain dialogue corpus. We evaluate our model on it in terms of BLEU and Entity F1 scores, and show that our approach significantly and consistently improves upon a series of baseline models as well as over the previous state-of-the-art dialogue generation model, ZSDG. The improvement upon the latter {---} up to 10{\%} in Entity F1 and the average of 3{\%} in BLEU score {---} is achieved using only 10{\%} equivalent of ZSDG{'}s in-domain training data.
Neural models of dialog rely on generalized latent representations of language. This paper introduces a novel training procedure which explicitly learns multiple representations of language at several levels of granularity. The multi-granularity training algorithm modifies the mechanism by which negative candidate responses are sampled in order to control the granularity of learned latent representations. Strong performance gains are observed on the next utterance retrieval task using both the MultiWOZ dataset and the Ubuntu dialog corpus. Analysis significantly demonstrates that multiple granularities of representation are being learned, and that multi-granularity training facilitates better transfer to downstream tasks.
Identity fraud detection is of great importance in many real-world scenarios such as the financial industry. However, few studies addressed this problem before. In this paper, we focus on identity fraud detection in loan applications and propose to solve this problem with a novel interactive dialogue system which consists of two modules. One is the knowledge graph (KG) constructor organizing the personal information for each loan applicant. The other is structured dialogue management that can dynamically generate a series of questions based on the personal KG to ask the applicants and determine their identity states. We also present a heuristic user simulator based on problem analysis to evaluate our method. Experiments have shown that the trainable dialogue system can effectively detect fraudsters, and achieve higher recognition accuracy compared with rule-based systems. Furthermore, our learned dialogue strategies are interpretable and flexible, which can help promote real-world applications.
The neural encoder-decoder models have shown great promise in neural conversation generation. However, they cannot perceive and express the intention effectively, and hence often generate dull and generic responses. Unlike past work that has focused on diversifying the output at word-level or discourse-level with a flat model to alleviate this problem, we propose a hierarchical generation model to capture the different levels of diversity using the conditional variational autoencoders. Specifically, a hierarchical response generation (HRG) framework is proposed to capture the conversation intention in a natural and coherent way. It has two modules, namely, an expression reconstruction model to capture the hierarchical correlation between expression and intention, and an expression attention model to effectively combine the expressions with contents. Finally, the training procedure of HRG is improved by introducing reconstruction loss. Experiment results show that our model can generate the responses with more appropriate content and expression.
Two types of knowledge, triples from knowledge graphs and texts from documents, have been studied for knowledge aware open domain conversation generation, in which graph paths can narrow down vertex candidates for knowledge selection decision, and texts can provide rich information for response generation. Fusion of a knowledge graph and texts might yield mutually reinforcing advantages, but there is less study on that. To address this challenge, we propose a knowledge aware chatting machine with three components, an augmented knowledge graph with both triples and texts, knowledge selector, and knowledge aware response generator. For knowledge selection on the graph, we formulate it as a problem of multi-hop graph reasoning to effectively capture conversation flow, which is more explainable and flexible in comparison with previous works. To fully leverage long text information that differentiates our graph from others, we improve a state of the art reasoning algorithm with machine reading comprehension technology. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our system on two datasets in comparison with state-of-the-art models.
Neural conversation systems generate responses based on the sequence-to-sequence (SEQ2SEQ) paradigm. Typically, the model is equipped with a single set of learned parameters to generate responses for given input contexts. When confronting diverse conversations, its adaptability is rather limited and the model is hence prone to generate generic responses. In this work, we propose an Adaptive Neural Dialogue generation model, AdaND, which manages various conversations with conversation-specific parameterization. For each conversation, the model generates parameters of the encoder-decoder by referring to the input context. In particular, we propose two adaptive parameterization mechanisms: a context-aware and a topic-aware parameterization mechanism. The context-aware parameterization directly generates the parameters by capturing local semantics of the given context. The topic-aware parameterization enables parameter sharing among conversations with similar topics by first inferring the latent topics of the given context and then generating the parameters with respect to the distributional topics. Extensive experiments conducted on a large-scale real-world conversational dataset show that our model achieves superior performance in terms of both quantitative metrics and human evaluations.
In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end framework called KBRD, which stands for Knowledge-Based Recommender Dialog System. It integrates the recommender system and the dialog generation system. The dialog generation system can enhance the performance of the recommendation system by introducing information about users{'} preferences, and the recommender system can improve that of the dialog generation system by providing recommendation-aware vocabulary bias. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed model has significant advantages over the baselines in both the evaluation of dialog generation and recommendation. A series of analyses show that the two systems can bring mutual benefits to each other, and the introduced knowledge contributes to both their performances.
Generating responses in a targeted style is a useful yet challenging task, especially in the absence of parallel data. With limited data, existing methods tend to generate responses that are either less stylized or less context-relevant. We propose StyleFusion, which bridges conversation modeling and non-parallel style transfer by sharing a structured latent space. This structure allows the system to generate stylized relevant responses by sampling in the neighborhood of the conversation model prediction, and continuously control the style level. We demonstrate this method using dialogues from Reddit data and two sets of sentences with distinct styles (arXiv and Sherlock Holmes novels). Automatic and human evaluation show that, without sacrificing appropriateness, the system generates responses of the targeted style and outperforms competitive baselines.
In multi-turn dialogue, utterances do not always take the full form of sentences. These incomplete utterances will greatly reduce the performance of open-domain dialogue systems. Restoring more incomplete utterances from context could potentially help the systems generate more relevant responses. To facilitate the study of incomplete utterance restoration for open-domain dialogue systems, a large-scale multi-turn dataset Restoration-200K is collected and manually labeled with the explicit relation between an utterance and its context. We also propose a {``}pick-and-combine{''} model to restore the incomplete utterance from its context. Experimental results demonstrate that the annotated dataset and the proposed approach significantly boost the response quality of both single-turn and multi-turn dialogue systems.
Context modeling has a pivotal role in open domain conversation. Existing works either use heuristic methods or jointly learn context modeling and response generation with an encoder-decoder framework. This paper proposes an explicit context rewriting method, which rewrites the last utterance by considering context history. We leverage pseudo-parallel data and elaborate a context rewriting network, which is built upon the CopyNet with the reinforcement learning method. The rewritten utterance is beneficial to candidate retrieval, explainable context modeling, as well as enabling to employ a single-turn framework to the multi-turn scenario. The empirical results show that our model outperforms baselines in terms of the rewriting quality, the multi-turn response generation, and the end-to-end retrieval-based chatbots.
This paper proposes a dually interactive matching network (DIM) for presenting the personalities of dialogue agents in retrieval-based chatbots. This model develops from the interactive matching network (IMN) which models the matching degree between a context composed of multiple utterances and a response candidate. Compared with previous persona fusion approach which enhances the representation of a context by calculating its similarity with a given persona, the DIM model adopts a dual matching architecture, which performs interactive matching between responses and contexts and between responses and personas respectively for ranking response candidates. Experimental results on PERSONA-CHAT dataset show that the DIM model outperforms its baseline model, i.e., IMN with persona fusion, by a margin of 14.5{\%} and outperforms the present state-of-the-art model by a margin of 27.7{\%} in terms of top-1 accuracy hits@1.
Data-driven, knowledge-grounded neural conversation models are capable of generating more informative responses. However, these models have not yet demonstrated that they can zero-shot adapt to updated, unseen knowledge graphs. This paper proposes a new task about how to apply dynamic knowledge graphs in neural conversation model and presents a novel TV series conversation corpus (DyKgChat) for the task. Our new task and corpus aids in understanding the influence of dynamic knowledge graphs on responses generation. Also, we propose a preliminary model that selects an output from two networks at each time step: a sequence-to-sequence model (Seq2Seq) and a multi-hop reasoning model, in order to support dynamic knowledge graphs. To benchmark this new task and evaluate the capability of adaptation, we introduce several evaluation metrics and the experiments show that our proposed approach outperforms previous knowledge-grounded conversation models. The proposed corpus and model can motivate the future research directions.
End-to-end sequence generation is a popular technique for developing open domain dialogue systems, though they suffer from the \textit{safe response problem}. Researchers have attempted to tackle this problem by incorporating generative models with the returns of retrieval systems. Recently, a skeleton-then-response framework has been shown promising results for this task. Nevertheless, how to precisely extract a skeleton and how to effectively train a retrieval-guided response generator are still challenging. This paper presents a novel framework in which the skeleton extraction is made by an interpretable matching model and the following skeleton-guided response generation is accomplished by a separately trained generator. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our model designs.
Existing approaches to dialogue state tracking rely on pre-defined ontologies consisting of a set of all possible slot types and values. Though such approaches exhibit promising performance on single-domain benchmarks, they suffer from computational complexity that increases proportionally to the number of pre-defined slots that need tracking. This issue becomes more severe when it comes to multi-domain dialogues which include larger numbers of slots. In this paper, we investigate how to approach DST using a generation framework without the pre-defined ontology list. Given each turn of user utterance and system response, we directly generate a sequence of belief states by applying a hierarchical encoder-decoder structure. In this way, the computational complexity of our model will be a constant regardless of the number of pre-defined slots. Experiments on both the multi-domain and the single domain dialogue state tracking dataset show that our model not only scales easily with the increasing number of pre-defined domains and slots but also reaches the state-of-the-art performance.
We study open domain response generation with limited message-response pairs. The problem exists in real-world applications but is less explored by the existing work. Since the paired data now is no longer enough to train a neural generation model, we consider leveraging the large scale of unpaired data that are much easier to obtain, and propose response generation with both paired and unpaired data. The generation model is defined by an encoder-decoder architecture with templates as prior, where the templates are estimated from the unpaired data as a neural hidden semi-markov model. By this means, response generation learned from the small paired data can be aided by the semantic and syntactic knowledge in the large unpaired data. To balance the effect of the prior and the input message to response generation, we propose learning the whole generation model with an adversarial approach. Empirical studies on question response generation and sentiment response generation indicate that when only a few pairs are available, our model can significantly outperform several state-of-the-art response generation models in terms of both automatic and human evaluation.
Neural conversation models such as encoder-decoder models are easy to generate bland and generic responses. Some researchers propose to use the conditional variational autoencoder (CVAE) which maximizes the lower bound on the conditional log-likelihood on a continuous latent variable. With different sampled latent variables, the model is expected to generate diverse responses. Although the CVAE-based models have shown tremendous potential, their improvement of generating high-quality responses is still unsatisfactory. In this paper, we introduce a discrete latent variable with an explicit semantic meaning to improve the CVAE on short-text conversation. A major advantage of our model is that we can exploit the semantic distance between the latent variables to maintain good diversity between the sampled latent variables. Accordingly, we propose a two-stage sampling approach to enable efficient diverse variable selection from a large latent space assumed in the short-text conversation task. Experimental results indicate that our model outperforms various kinds of generation models under both automatic and human evaluations and generates more diverse and informative responses.
Previous research on dialogue systems generally focuses on the conversation between two participants, yet multi-party conversations which involve more than two participants within one session bring up a more complicated but realistic scenario. In real multi- party conversations, we can observe who is speaking, but the addressee information is not always explicit. In this paper, we aim to tackle the challenge of identifying all the miss- ing addressees in a conversation session. To this end, we introduce a novel who-to-whom (W2W) model which models users and utterances in the session jointly in an interactive way. We conduct experiments on the benchmark Ubuntu Multi-Party Conversation Corpus and the experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms baselines with consistent improvements.
Neural sequence-to-sequence models for dialog systems suffer from the problem of favoring uninformative and non replier-specific responses due to lack of the global and relevant information guidance. The existing methods model the generation process by leveraging the neural variational network with simple Gaussian. However, the sampled information from latent space usually becomes useless due to the KL divergence vanishing issue, and the highly abstractive global variables easily dilute the personal features of replier, leading to a non replier-specific response. Therefore, a novel Semi-Supervised Stable Variational Network (SSVN) is proposed to address these issues. We use a unit hypersperical distribution, namely the von Mises-Fisher (vMF), as the latent space of a semi-supervised model, which can obtain the stable KL performance by setting a fixed variance and hence enhance the global information representation. Meanwhile, an unsupervised extractor is introduced to automatically distill the replier-tailored feature which is then injected into a supervised generator to encourage the replier-consistency. Experimental results on two large conversation datasets show that our model outperforms the competitive baseline models significantly, and can generate diverse and replier-specific responses.
Variational autoencoders (VAEs) and Wasserstein autoencoders (WAEs) have achieved noticeable progress in open-domain response generation. Through introducing latent variables in continuous space, these models are capable of capturing utterance-level semantics, e.g., topic, syntactic properties, and thus can generate informative and diversified responses. In this work, we improve the WAE for response generation. In addition to the utterance-level information, we also model user-level information in latent continue space. Specifically, we embed user-level and utterance-level information into two multimodal distributions, and combine these two multimodal distributions into a mixed distribution. This mixed distribution will be used as the prior distribution of WAE in our proposed model, named as PersonaWAE. Experimental results on a large-scale real-world dataset confirm the superiority of our model for generating informative and personalized responses, where both automatic and human evaluations outperform state-of-the-art models.
Generating appropriate conversation responses requires careful modeling of the utterances and speakers together. Some recent approaches to response generation model both the utterances and the speakers, but these approaches tend to generate responses that are overly tailored to the speakers. To overcome this limitation, we propose a new model with a stochastic variable designed to capture the speaker information and deliver it to the conversational context. An important part of this model is the network of speakers in which each speaker is connected to one or more conversational partner, and this network is then used to model the speakers better. To test whether our model generates more appropriate conversation responses, we build a new conversation corpus containing approximately 27,000 speakers and 770,000 conversations. With this corpus, we run experiments of generating conversational responses and compare our model with other state-of-the-art models. By automatic evaluation metrics and human evaluation, we show that our model outperforms other models in generating appropriate responses. An additional advantage of our model is that it generates better responses for various new user scenarios, for example when one of the speakers is a known user in our corpus but the partner is a new user. For replicability, we make available all our code and data.
Traditional recommendation systems produce static rather than interactive recommendations invariant to a user{'}s specific requests, clarifications, or current mood, and can suffer from the cold-start problem if their tastes are unknown. These issues can be alleviated by treating recommendation as an interactive dialogue task instead, where an expert recommender can sequentially ask about someone{'}s preferences, react to their requests, and recommend more appropriate items. In this work, we collect a goal-driven recommendation dialogue dataset (GoRecDial), which consists of 9,125 dialogue games and 81,260 conversation turns between pairs of human workers recommending movies to each other. The task is specifically designed as a cooperative game between two players working towards a quantifiable common goal. We leverage the dataset to develop an end-to-end dialogue system that can simultaneously converse and recommend. Models are first trained to imitate the behavior of human players without considering the task goal itself (supervised training). We then finetune our models on simulated bot-bot conversations between two paired pre-trained models (bot-play), in order to achieve the dialogue goal. Our experiments show that models finetuned with bot-play learn improved dialogue strategies, reach the dialogue goal more often when paired with a human, and are rated as more consistent by humans compared to models trained without bot-play. The dataset and code are publicly available through the ParlAI framework.
We present CoSQL, a corpus for building cross-domain, general-purpose database (DB) querying dialogue systems. It consists of 30k+ turns plus 10k+ annotated SQL queries, obtained from a Wizard-of-Oz (WOZ) collection of 3k dialogues querying 200 complex DBs spanning 138 domains. Each dialogue simulates a real-world DB query scenario with a crowd worker as a user exploring the DB and a SQL expert retrieving answers with SQL, clarifying ambiguous questions, or otherwise informing of unanswerable questions. When user questions are answerable by SQL, the expert describes the SQL and execution results to the user, hence maintaining a natural interaction flow. CoSQL introduces new challenges compared to existing task-oriented dialogue datasets: (1) the dialogue states are grounded in SQL, a domain-independent executable representation, instead of domain-specific slot value pairs, and (2) because testing is done on unseen databases, success requires generalizing to new domains. CoSQL includes three tasks: SQL-grounded dialogue state tracking, response generation from query results, and user dialogue act prediction. We evaluate a set of strong baselines for each task and show that CoSQL presents significant challenges for future research. The dataset, baselines, and leaderboard will be released at https://yale-lily.github.io/cosql.
Dialogue Acts play an important role in conversation modeling. Research has shown the utility of dialogue acts for the response selection task, however, the underlying assumption is that the dialogue acts are readily available, which is impractical, as dialogue acts are rarely available for new conversations. This paper proposes an end-to-end multi-task model for conversation modeling, which is optimized for two tasks, dialogue act prediction and response selection, with the latter being the task of interest. It proposes a novel way of combining the predicted dialogue acts of context and response with the context (previous utterances) and response (follow-up utterance) in a crossway fashion, such that, it achieves at par performance for the response selection task compared to the model that uses actual dialogue acts. Through experiments on two well known datasets, we demonstrate that the multi-task model not only improves the accuracy of the dialogue act prediction task but also improves the MRR for the response selection task. Also, the cross-stitching of dialogue acts of context and response with the context and response is better than using either one of them individually.
User simulators are essential for training reinforcement learning (RL) based dialog models. The performance of the simulator directly impacts the RL policy. However, building a good user simulator that models real user behaviors is challenging. We propose a method of standardizing user simulator building that can be used by the community to compare dialog system quality using the same set of user simulators fairly. We present implementations of six user simulators trained with different dialog planning and generation methods. We then calculate a set of automatic metrics to evaluate the quality of these simulators both directly and indirectly. We also ask human users to assess the simulators directly and indirectly by rating the simulated dialogs and interacting with the trained systems. This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation framework for user simulator study and provides a better understanding of the pros and cons of different user simulators, as well as their impacts on the trained systems.
This paper addresses the challenging task of video captioning which aims to generate descriptions for video data. Recently, the attention-based encoder-decoder structures have been widely used in video captioning. In existing literature, the attention weights are often built from the information of an individual modality, while, the association relationships between multiple modalities are neglected. Motivated by this, we propose a video captioning model with High-Order Cross-Modal Attention (HOCA) where the attention weights are calculated based on the high-order correlation tensor to capture the frame-level cross-modal interaction of different modalities sufficiently. Furthermore, we novelly introduce Low-Rank HOCA which adopts tensor decomposition to reduce the extremely large space requirement of HOCA, leading to a practical and efficient implementation in real-world applications. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets, MSVD and MSR-VTT, show that Low-rank HOCA establishes a new state-of-the-art.
Constructing an organized dataset comprised of a large number of images and several captions for each image is a laborious task, which requires vast human effort. On the other hand, collecting a large number of images and sentences separately may be immensely easier. In this paper, we develop a novel data-efficient semi-supervised framework for training an image captioning model. We leverage massive unpaired image and caption data by learning to associate them. To this end, our proposed semi-supervised learning method assigns pseudo-labels to unpaired samples via Generative Adversarial Networks to learn the joint distribution of image and caption. To evaluate, we construct scarcely-paired COCO dataset, a modified version of MS COCO caption dataset. The empirical results show the effectiveness of our method compared to several strong baselines, especially when the amount of the paired samples are scarce.
Visual dialog (VisDial) is a task which requires a dialog agent to answer a series of questions grounded in an image. Unlike in visual question answering (VQA), the series of questions should be able to capture a temporal context from a dialog history and utilizes visually-grounded information. Visual reference resolution is a problem that addresses these challenges, requiring the agent to resolve ambiguous references in a given question and to find the references in a given image. In this paper, we propose Dual Attention Networks (DAN) for visual reference resolution in VisDial. DAN consists of two kinds of attention modules, REFER and FIND. Specifically, REFER module learns latent relationships between a given question and a dialog history by employing a multi-head attention mechanism. FIND module takes image features and reference-aware representations (i.e., the output of REFER module) as input, and performs visual grounding via bottom-up attention mechanism. We qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate our model on VisDial v1.0 and v0.9 datasets, showing that DAN outperforms the previous state-of-the-art model by a significant margin.
Images and text co-occur constantly on the web, but explicit links between images and sentences (or other intra-document textual units) are often not present. We present algorithms that discover image-sentence relationships without relying on explicit multimodal annotation in training. We experiment on seven datasets of varying difficulty, ranging from documents consisting of groups of images captioned post hoc by crowdworkers to naturally-occurring user-generated multimodal documents. We find that a structured training objective based on identifying whether collections of images and sentences co-occur in documents can suffice to predict links between specific sentences and specific images within the same document at test time.
Humor is a unique and creative communicative behavior often displayed during social interactions. It is produced in a multimodal manner, through the usage of words (text), gestures (visual) and prosodic cues (acoustic). Understanding humor from these three modalities falls within boundaries of multimodal language; a recent research trend in natural language processing that models natural language as it happens in face-to-face communication. Although humor detection is an established research area in NLP, in a multimodal context it has been understudied. This paper presents a diverse multimodal dataset, called UR-FUNNY, to open the door to understanding multimodal language used in expressing humor. The dataset and accompanying studies, present a framework in multimodal humor detection for the natural language processing community. UR-FUNNY is publicly available for research.
Multi-view learning algorithms are powerful representation learning tools, often exploited in the context of multimodal problems. However, for problems requiring inference at the token-level of a sequence (that is, a separate prediction must be made for every time step), it is often the case that single-view systems are used, or that more than one views are fused in a simple manner. We describe an incremental neural architecture paired with a novel training objective for incremental inference. The network operates on multi-view data. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on the problem of predicting perpetrators in crime drama series, for which our model significantly outperforms previous work and strong baselines. Moreover, we introduce two tasks, crime case and speaker type tagging, that contribute to movie understanding and demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on them.
In the current video captioning models, the video frames are collected in one network and the semantics are mixed into one feature, which not only increase the difficulty of the caption decoding, but also decrease the interpretability of the captioning models. To address these problems, we propose an Adaptive Semantic Guidance Network (ASGN), which instantiates the whole video semantics to different POS-aware semantics with the supervision of part of speech (POS) tag. In the encoding process, the POS tag activates the related neurons and parses the whole semantic information into corresponding encoded video representations. Furthermore, the potential of the model is stimulated by the POS-aware video features. In the decoding process, the related video features of noun and verb are used as the supervision to construct a new adaptive attention model which can decide whether to attend to the video feature or not. With the explicit improving of the interpretability of the network, the learning process is more transparent and the results are more predictable. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our model when compared with state-of-the-art models.
Intent detection and slot filling are two main tasks for building a spoken language understanding (SLU) system. The two tasks are closely tied and the slots often highly depend on the intent. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for SLU to better incorporate the intent information, which further guiding the slot filling. In our framework, we adopt a joint model with Stack-Propagation which can directly use the intent information as input for slot filling, thus to capture the intent semantic knowledge. In addition, to further alleviate the error propagation, we perform the token-level intent detection for the Stack-Propagation framework. Experiments on two publicly datasets show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance and outperforms other previous methods by a large margin. Finally, we use the Bidirectional Encoder Representation from Transformer (BERT) model in our framework, which further boost our performance in SLU task.
A long-term goal of artificial intelligence is to have an agent execute commands communicated through natural language. In many cases the commands are grounded in a visual environment shared by the human who gives the command and the agent. Execution of the command then requires mapping the command into the physical visual space, after which the appropriate action can be taken. In this paper we consider the former. Or more specifically, we consider the problem in an autonomous driving setting, where a passenger requests an action that can be associated with an object found in a street scene. Our work presents the Talk2Car dataset, which is the first object referral dataset that contains commands written in natural language for self-driving cars. We provide a detailed comparison with related datasets such as ReferIt, RefCOCO, RefCOCO+, RefCOCOg, Cityscape-Ref and CLEVR-Ref. Additionally, we include a performance analysis using strong state-of-the-art models. The results show that the proposed object referral task is a challenging one for which the models show promising results but still require additional research in natural language processing, computer vision and the intersection of these fields. The dataset can be found on our website: http://macchina-ai.eu/
The recent explosion of false claims in social media and on the Web in general has given rise to a lot of manual fact-checking initiatives. Unfortunately, the number of claims that need to be fact-checked is several orders of magnitude larger than what humans can handle manually. Thus, there has been a lot of research aiming at automating the process. Interestingly, previous work has largely ignored the growing number of claims about images. This is despite the fact that visual imagery is more influential than text and naturally appears alongside fake news. Here we aim at bridging this gap. In particular, we create a new dataset for this problem, and we explore a variety of features modeling the claim, the image, and the relationship between the claim and the image. The evaluation results show sizable improvements over the baseline. We release our dataset, hoping to enable further research on fact-checking claims about images.
Video dialog is a new and challenging task, which requires the agent to answer questions combining video information with dialog history. And different from single-turn video question answering, the additional dialog history is important for video dialog, which often includes contextual information for the question. Existing visual dialog methods mainly use RNN to encode the dialog history as a single vector representation, which might be rough and straightforward. Some more advanced methods utilize hierarchical structure, attention and memory mechanisms, which still lack an explicit reasoning process. In this paper, we introduce a novel progressive inference mechanism for video dialog, which progressively updates query information based on dialog history and video content until the agent think the information is sufficient and unambiguous. In order to tackle the multi-modal fusion problem, we propose a cross-transformer module, which could learn more fine-grained and comprehensive interactions both inside and between the modalities. And besides answer generation, we also consider question generation, which is more challenging but significant for a complete video dialog system. We evaluate our method on two large-scale datasets, and the extensive experiments show the effectiveness of our method.
We study a collaborative scenario where a user not only instructs a system to complete tasks, but also acts alongside it. This allows the user to adapt to the system abilities by changing their language or deciding to simply accomplish some tasks themselves, and requires the system to effectively recover from errors as the user strategically assigns it new goals. We build a game environment to study this scenario, and learn to map user instructions to system actions. We introduce a learning approach focused on recovery from cascading errors between instructions, and modeling methods to explicitly reason about instructions with multiple goals. We evaluate with a new evaluation protocol using recorded interactions and online games with human users, and observe how users adapt to the system abilities.
To advance models of multimodal context, we introduce a simple yet powerful neural architecture for data that combines vision and natural language. The {``}Bounding Boxes in Text Transformer{''} (B2T2) also leverages referential information binding words to portions of the image in a single unified architecture. B2T2 is highly effective on the Visual Commonsense Reasoning benchmark, achieving a new state-of-the-art with a 25{\%} relative reduction in error rate compared to published baselines and obtaining the best performance to date on the public leaderboard (as of May 22, 2019). A detailed ablation analysis shows that the early integration of the visual features into the text analysis is key to the effectiveness of the new architecture. A reference implementation of our models is provided.
This paper presents a new metric called TIGEr for the automatic evaluation of image captioning systems. Popular metrics, such as BLEU and CIDEr, are based solely on text matching between reference captions and machine-generated captions, potentially leading to biased evaluations because references may not fully cover the image content and natural language is inherently ambiguous. Building upon a machine-learned text-image grounding model, TIGEr allows to evaluate caption quality not only based on how well a caption represents image content, but also on how well machine-generated captions match human-generated captions. Our empirical tests show that TIGEr has a higher consistency with human judgments than alternative existing metrics. We also comprehensively assess the metric{'}s effectiveness in caption evaluation by measuring the correlation between human judgments and metric scores.
Adversarial examples highlight model vulnerabilities and are useful for evaluation and interpretation. We define universal adversarial triggers: input-agnostic sequences of tokens that trigger a model to produce a specific prediction when concatenated to any input from a dataset. We propose a gradient-guided search over tokens which finds short trigger sequences (e.g., one word for classification and four words for language modeling) that successfully trigger the target prediction. For example, triggers cause SNLI entailment accuracy to drop from 89.94{\%} to 0.55{\%}, 72{\%} of {``}why{''} questions in SQuAD to be answered {``}to kill american people{''}, and the GPT-2 language model to spew racist output even when conditioned on non-racial contexts. Furthermore, although the triggers are optimized using white-box access to a specific model, they transfer to other models for all tasks we consider. Finally, since triggers are input-agnostic, they provide an analysis of global model behavior. For instance, they confirm that SNLI models exploit dataset biases and help to diagnose heuristics learned by reading comprehension models.
Performance drop due to domain-shift is an endemic problem for NLP models in production. This problem creates an urge to continuously annotate evaluation datasets to measure the expected drop in the model performance which can be prohibitively expensive and slow. In this paper, we study the problem of predicting the performance drop of modern NLP models under domain-shift, in the absence of any target domain labels. We investigate three families of methods ($\mathcal{H}$-divergence, reverse classification accuracy and confidence measures), show how they can be used to predict the performance drop and study their robustness to adversarial domain-shifts. Our results on sentiment classification and sequence labelling show that our method is able to predict performance drops with an error rate as low as 2.15{\%} and 0.89{\%} for sentiment analysis and POS tagging respectively.
Attention mechanisms have become ubiquitous in NLP. Recent architectures, notably the Transformer, learn powerful context-aware word representations through layered, multi-headed attention. The multiple heads learn diverse types of word relationships. However, with standard softmax attention, all attention heads are dense, assigning a non-zero weight to all context words. In this work, we introduce the adaptively sparse Transformer, wherein attention heads have flexible, context-dependent sparsity patterns. This sparsity is accomplished by replacing softmax with alpha-entmax: a differentiable generalization of softmax that allows low-scoring words to receive precisely zero weight. Moreover, we derive a method to automatically learn the alpha parameter {--} which controls the shape and sparsity of alpha-entmax {--} allowing attention heads to choose between focused or spread-out behavior. Our adaptively sparse Transformer improves interpretability and head diversity when compared to softmax Transformers on machine translation datasets. Findings of the quantitative and qualitative analysis of our approach include that heads in different layers learn different sparsity preferences and tend to be more diverse in their attention distributions than softmax Transformers. Furthermore, at no cost in accuracy, sparsity in attention heads helps to uncover different head specializations.
Research in natural language processing proceeds, in part, by demonstrating that new models achieve superior performance (e.g., accuracy) on held-out test data, compared to previous results. In this paper, we demonstrate that test-set performance scores alone are insufficient for drawing accurate conclusions about which model performs best. We argue for reporting additional details, especially performance on validation data obtained during model development. We present a novel technique for doing so: expected validation performance of the best-found model as a function of computation budget (i.e., the number of hyperparameter search trials or the overall training time). Using our approach, we find multiple recent model comparisons where authors would have reached a different conclusion if they had used more (or less) computation. Our approach also allows us to estimate the amount of computation required to obtain a given accuracy; applying it to several recently published results yields massive variation across papers, from hours to weeks. We conclude with a set of best practices for reporting experimental results which allow for robust future comparisons, and provide code to allow researchers to use our technique.
We propose a deep factorization model for typographic analysis that disentangles content from style. Specifically, a variational inference procedure factors each training glyph into the combination of a character-specific content embedding and a latent font-specific style variable. The underlying generative model combines these factors through an asymmetric transpose convolutional process to generate the image of the glyph itself. When trained on corpora of fonts, our model learns a manifold over font styles that can be used to analyze or reconstruct new, unseen fonts. On the task of reconstructing missing glyphs from an unknown font given only a small number of observations, our model outperforms both a strong nearest neighbors baseline and a state-of-the-art discriminative model from prior work.
Semantic specialization integrates structured linguistic knowledge from external resources (such as lexical relations in WordNet) into pretrained distributional vectors in the form of constraints. However, this technique cannot be leveraged in many languages, because their structured external resources are typically incomplete or non-existent. To bridge this gap, we propose a novel method that transfers specialization from a resource-rich source language (English) to virtually any target language. Our specialization transfer comprises two crucial steps: 1) Inducing noisy constraints in the target language through automatic word translation; and 2) Filtering the noisy constraints via a state-of-the-art relation prediction model trained on the source language constraints. This allows us to specialize any set of distributional vectors in the target language with the refined constraints. We prove the effectiveness of our method through intrinsic word similarity evaluation in 8 languages, and with 3 downstream tasks in 5 languages: lexical simplification, dialog state tracking, and semantic textual similarity. The gains over the previous state-of-art specialization methods are substantial and consistent across languages. Our results also suggest that the transfer method is effective even for lexically distant source-target language pairs. Finally, as a by-product, our method produces lists of WordNet-style lexical relations in resource-poor languages.
Metaphors allow us to convey emotion by connecting physical experiences and abstract concepts. The results of previous research in linguistics and psychology suggest that metaphorical phrases tend to be more emotionally evocative than their literal counterparts. In this paper, we investigate the relationship between metaphor and emotion within a computational framework, by proposing the first joint model of these phenomena. We experiment with several multitask learning architectures for this purpose, involving both hard and soft parameter sharing. Our results demonstrate that metaphor identification and emotion prediction mutually benefit from joint learning and our models advance the state of the art in both of these tasks.
In natural language inference (NLI), contexts are considered veridical if they allow us to infer that their underlying propositions make true claims about the real world. We investigate whether a state-of-the-art natural language inference model (BERT) learns to make correct inferences about veridicality in verb-complement constructions. We introduce an NLI dataset for veridicality evaluation consisting of 1,500 sentence pairs, covering 137 unique verbs. We find that both human and model inferences generally follow theoretical patterns, but exhibit a systematic bias towards assuming that verbs are veridical{--}a bias which is amplified in BERT. We further show that, encouragingly, BERT{'}s inferences are sensitive not only to the presence of individual verb types, but also to the syntactic role of the verb, the form of the complement clause (to- vs. that-complements), and negation.
There is an extensive history of scholarship into what constitutes a {``}basic{''} color term, as well as a broadly attested acquisition sequence of basic color terms across many languages, as articulated in the seminal work of Berlin and Kay (1969). This paper employs a set of diverse measures on massively cross-linguistic data to operationalize and critique the Berlin and Kay color term hypotheses. Collectively, the 14 empirically-grounded computational linguistic metrics we design{---}as well as their aggregation{---}correlate strongly with both the Berlin and Kay basic/secondary color term partition (γ = 0.96) and their hypothesized universal acquisition sequence. The measures and result provide further empirical evidence from computational linguistics in support of their claims, as well as additional nuance: they suggest treating the partition as a spectrum instead of a dichotomy.
Recently, neural approaches to coherence modeling have achieved state-of-the-art results in several evaluation tasks. However, we show that most of these models often fail on harder tasks with more realistic application scenarios. In particular, the existing models underperform on tasks that require the model to be sensitive to local contexts such as candidate ranking in conversational dialogue and in machine translation. In this paper, we propose a unified coherence model that incorporates sentence grammar, inter-sentence coherence relations, and global coherence patterns into a common neural framework. With extensive experiments on local and global discrimination tasks, we demonstrate that our proposed model outperforms existing models by a good margin, and establish a new state-of-the-art.
We propose a novel topic-guided coherence modeling (TGCM) for sentence ordering. Our attention based pointer decoder directly utilize sentence vectors in a permutation-invariant manner, without being compressed into a single fixed-length vector as the paragraph representation. Thus, TGCM can improve global dependencies among sentences and preserve relatively informative paragraph-level semantics. Moreover, to predict the next sentence, we capture topic-enhanced sentence-pair interactions between the current predicted sentence and each next-sentence candidate. With the coherent topical context matching, we promote local dependencies that help identify the tight semantic connections for sentence ordering. The experimental results show that TGCM outperforms state-of-the-art models from various perspectives.
Rhetorical structure trees have been shown to be useful for several document-level tasks including summarization and document classification. Previous approaches to RST parsing have used discriminative models; however, these are less sample efficient than generative models, and RST parsing datasets are typically small. In this paper, we present the first generative model for RST parsing. Our model is a document-level RNN grammar (RNNG) with a bottom-up traversal order. We show that, for our parser{'}s traversal order, previous beam search algorithms for RNNGs have a left-branching bias which is ill-suited for RST parsing.We develop a novel beam search algorithm that keeps track of both structure-and word-generating actions without exhibit-ing this branching bias and results in absolute improvements of 6.8 and 2.9 on unlabelled and labelled F1 over previous algorithms. Overall, our generative model outperforms a discriminative model with the same features by 2.6 F1points and achieves performance comparable to the state-of-the-art, outperforming all published parsers from a recent replication study that do not use additional training data
This paper provides a detailed comparison of a data programming approach with (i) off-the-shelf, state-of-the-art deep learning architectures that optimize their representations (BERT) and (ii) handcrafted-feature approaches previously used in the discourse analysis literature. We compare these approaches on the task of learning discourse structure for multi-party dialogue. The data programming paradigm offered by the Snorkel framework allows a user to label training data using expert-composed heuristics, which are then transformed via the {``}generative step{''} into probability distributions of the class labels given the data. We show that on our task the generative model outperforms both deep learning architectures as well as more traditional ML approaches when learning discourse structure{---}it even outperforms the combination of deep learning methods and hand-crafted features. We also implement several strategies for {``}decoding{''} our generative model output in order to improve our results. We conclude that weak supervision methods hold great promise as a means for creating and improving data sets for discourse structure.
Discourse parsing could not yet take full advantage of the neural NLP revolution, mostly due to the lack of annotated datasets. We propose a novel approach that uses distant supervision on an auxiliary task (sentiment classification), to generate abundant data for RST-style discourse structure prediction. Our approach combines a neural variant of multiple-instance learning, using document-level supervision, with an optimal CKY-style tree generation algorithm. In a series of experiments, we train a discourse parser (for only structure prediction) on our automatically generated dataset and compare it with parsers trained on human-annotated corpora (news domain RST-DT and Instructional domain). Results indicate that while our parser does not yet match the performance of a parser trained and tested on the same dataset (intra-domain), it does perform remarkably well on the much more difficult and arguably more useful task of inter-domain discourse structure prediction, where the parser is trained on one domain and tested/applied on another one.
The review and selection process for scientific paper publication is essential for the quality of scholarly publications in a scientific field. The double-blind review system, which enforces author anonymity during the review period, is widely used by prestigious conferences and journals to ensure the integrity of this process. Although the notion of anonymity in the double-blind review has been questioned before, the availability of full text paper collections brings new opportunities for exploring the question: Is the double-blind review process really double-blind? We study this question on the ACL and EMNLP paper collections and present an analysis on how well deep learning techniques can infer the authors of a paper. Specifically, we explore Convolutional Neural Networks trained on various aspects of a paper, e.g., content, style features, and references, to understand the extent to which we can infer the authors of a paper and what aspects contribute the most. Our results show that the authors of a paper can be inferred with accuracy as high as 87{\%} on ACL and 78{\%} on EMNLP for the top 100 most prolific authors.
The number of personal stories about sexual harassment shared online has increased exponentially in recent years. This is in part inspired by the {\#}MeToo and {\#}TimesUp movements. Safecity is an online forum for people who experienced or witnessed sexual harassment to share their personal experiences. It has collected {\textgreater}10,000 stories so far. Sexual harassment occurred in a variety of situations, and categorization of the stories and extraction of their key elements will provide great help for the related parties to understand and address sexual harassment. In this study, we manually annotated those stories with labels in the dimensions of location, time, and harassers{'} characteristics, and marked the key elements related to these dimensions. Furthermore, we applied natural language processing technologies with joint learning schemes to automatically categorize these stories in those dimensions and extract key elements at the same time. We also uncovered significant patterns from the categorized sexual harassment stories. We believe our annotated data set, proposed algorithms, and analysis will help people who have been harassed, authorities, researchers and other related parties in various ways, such as automatically filling reports, enlightening the public in order to prevent future harassment, and enabling more effective, faster action to be taken.
We propose a new framework to uncover the relationship between news events and real world phenomena. We present the Predictive Causal Graph (PCG) which allows to detect latent relationships between events mentioned in news streams. This graph is constructed by measuring how the occurrence of a word in the news influences the occurrence of another (set of) word(s) in the future. We show that PCG can be used to extract latent features from news streams, outperforming other graph-based methods in prediction error of 10 stock price time series for 12 months. We then extended PCG to be applicable for longer time windows by allowing time-varying factors, leading to stock price prediction error rates between 1.5{\%} and 5{\%} for about 4 years. We then manually validated PCG, finding that 67{\%} of the causation semantic frame arguments present in the news corpus were directly connected in the PCG, the remaining being connected through a semantically relevant intermediate node.
Social media provides a timely yet challenging data source for adverse drug reaction (ADR) detection. Existing dictionary-based, semi-supervised learning approaches are intrinsically limited by the coverage and maintainability of laymen health vocabularies. In this paper, we introduce a data augmentation approach that leverages variational autoencoders to learn high-quality data distributions from a large unlabeled dataset, and subsequently, to automatically generate a large labeled training set from a small set of labeled samples. This allows for efficient social-media ADR detection with low training and re-training costs to adapt to the changes and emergence of informal medical laymen terms. An extensive evaluation performed on Twitter and Reddit data shows that our approach matches the performance of fully-supervised approaches while requiring only 25{\%} of training data.
User-generated textual data is rich in content and has been used in many user behavioral modeling tasks. However, it could also leak user private-attribute information that they may not want to disclose such as age and location. User{'}s privacy concerns mandate data publishers to protect privacy. One effective way is to anonymize the textual data. In this paper, we study the problem of textual data anonymization and propose a novel Reinforcement Learning-based Text Anonymizor, RLTA, which addresses the problem of private-attribute leakage while preserving the utility of textual data. Our approach first extracts a latent representation of the original text w.r.t. a given task, then leverages deep reinforcement learning to automatically learn an optimal strategy for manipulating text representations w.r.t. the received privacy and utility feedback. Experiments show the effectiveness of this approach in terms of preserving both privacy and utility.
Automatically solving math word problems is an interesting research topic that needs to bridge natural language descriptions and formal math equations. Previous studies introduced end-to-end neural network methods, but these approaches did not efficiently consider an important characteristic of the equation, i.e., an abstract syntax tree. To address this problem, we propose a tree-structured decoding method that generates the abstract syntax tree of the equation in a top-down manner. In addition, our approach can automatically stop during decoding without a redundant stop token. The experimental results show that our method achieves single model state-of-the-art performance on Math23K, which is the largest dataset on this task.
We consider open-domain question answering (QA) where answers are drawn from either a corpus, a knowledge base (KB), or a combination of both of these. We focus on a setting in which a corpus is supplemented with a large but incomplete KB, and on questions that require non-trivial (e.g., {``}multi-hop{''}) reasoning. We describe PullNet, an integrated framework for (1) learning what to retrieve and (2) reasoning with this heterogeneous information to find the best answer. PullNet uses an {iterative} process to construct a question-specific subgraph that contains information relevant to the question. In each iteration, a graph convolutional network (graph CNN) is used to identify subgraph nodes that should be expanded using retrieval (or {``}pull{''}) operations on the corpus and/or KB. After the subgraph is complete, another graph CNN is used to extract the answer from the subgraph. This retrieve-and-reason process allows us to answer multi-hop questions using large KBs and corpora. PullNet is weakly supervised, requiring question-answer pairs but not gold inference paths. Experimentally PullNet improves over the prior state-of-the art, and in the setting where a corpus is used with incomplete KB these improvements are often dramatic. PullNet is also often superior to prior systems in a KB-only setting or a text-only setting.
Understanding narratives requires reading between the lines, which in turn, requires interpreting the likely causes and effects of events, even when they are not mentioned explicitly. In this paper, we introduce Cosmos QA, a large-scale dataset of 35,600 problems that require commonsense-based reading comprehension, formulated as multiple-choice questions. In stark contrast to most existing reading comprehension datasets where the questions focus on factual and literal understanding of the context paragraph, our dataset focuses on reading between the lines over a diverse collection of people{'}s everyday narratives, asking such questions as {``}what might be the possible reason of ...?'', or {``}what would have happened if ...'' that require reasoning beyond the exact text spans in the context. To establish baseline performances on Cosmos QA, we experiment with several state-of-the-art neural architectures for reading comprehension, and also propose a new architecture that improves over the competitive baselines. Experimental results demonstrate a significant gap between machine (68.4{\%}) and human performance (94{\%}), pointing to avenues for future research on commonsense machine comprehension. Dataset, code and leaderboard is publicly available at https://wilburone.github.io/cosmos.
We propose a system that finds the strongest supporting evidence for a given answer to a question, using passage-based question-answering (QA) as a testbed. We train evidence agents to select the passage sentences that most convince a pretrained QA model of a given answer, if the QA model received those sentences instead of the full passage. Rather than finding evidence that convinces one model alone, we find that agents select evidence that generalizes; agent-chosen evidence increases the plausibility of the supported answer, as judged by other QA models and humans. Given its general nature, this approach improves QA in a robust manner: using agent-selected evidence (i) humans can correctly answer questions with only {\textasciitilde}20{\%} of the full passage and (ii) QA models can generalize to longer passages and harder questions.
Open-domain question answering (OpenQA) aims to answer questions based on a number of unlabeled paragraphs. Existing approaches always follow the distantly supervised setup where some of the paragraphs are wrong-labeled (noisy), and mainly utilize the paragraph-question relevance to denoise. However, the paragraph-paragraph relevance, which may aggregate the evidence among relevant paragraphs, can also be utilized to discover more useful paragraphs. Moreover, current approaches mainly focus on the positive paragraphs which are known to contain the answer during training. This will affect the generalization ability of the model and make it be disturbed by the similar but irrelevant (distracting) paragraphs during testing. In this paper, we first introduce a ranking model leveraging the paragraph-question and the paragraph-paragraph relevance to compute a confidence score for each paragraph. Furthermore, based on the scores, we design a modified weighted sampling strategy for training to mitigate the influence of the noisy and distracting paragraphs. Experiments on three public datasets (Quasar-T, SearchQA and TriviaQA) show that our model advances the state of the art.
Bilinear diagonal models for knowledge graph embedding (KGE), such as DistMult and ComplEx, balance expressiveness and computational efficiency by representing relations as diagonal matrices. Although they perform well in predicting atomic relations, composite relations (relation paths) cannot be modeled naturally by the product of relation matrices, as the product of diagonal matrices is commutative and hence invariant with the order of relations. In this paper, we propose a new bilinear KGE model, called BlockHolE, based on block circulant matrices. In BlockHolE, relation matrices can be non-commutative, allowing composite relations to be modeled by matrix product. The model is parameterized in a way that covers a spectrum ranging from diagonal to full relation matrices. A fast computation technique can be developed on the basis of the duality of the Fourier transform of circulant matrices.
We tackle the task of question generation over knowledge bases. Conventional methods for this task neglect two crucial research issues: 1) the given predicate needs to be expressed; 2) the answer to the generated question needs to be definitive. In this paper, we strive toward the above two issues via incorporating diversified contexts and answer-aware loss. Specifically, we propose a neural encoder-decoder model with multi-level copy mechanisms to generate such questions. Furthermore, the answer aware loss is introduced to make generated questions corresponding to more definitive answers. Experiments demonstrate that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance. Meanwhile, such generated question is able to express the given predicate and correspond to a definitive answer.
We consider the problem of conversational question answering over a large-scale knowledge base. To handle huge entity vocabulary of a large-scale knowledge base, recent neural semantic parsing based approaches usually decompose the task into several subtasks and then solve them sequentially, which leads to following issues: 1) errors in earlier subtasks will be propagated and negatively affect downstream ones; and 2) each subtask cannot naturally share supervision signals with others. To tackle these issues, we propose an innovative multi-task learning framework where a pointer-equipped semantic parsing model is designed to resolve coreference in conversations, and naturally empower joint learning with a novel type-aware entity detection model. The proposed framework thus enables shared supervisions and alleviates the effect of error propagation. Experiments on a large-scale conversational question answering dataset containing 1.6M question answering pairs over 12.8M entities show that the proposed framework improves overall F1 score from 67{\%} to 79{\%} compared with previous state-of-the-art work.
This paper presents BiPaR, a bilingual parallel novel-style machine reading comprehension (MRC) dataset, developed to support multilingual and cross-lingual reading comprehension. The biggest difference between BiPaR and existing reading comprehension datasets is that each triple (Passage, Question, Answer) in BiPaR is written parallelly in two languages. We collect 3,667 bilingual parallel paragraphs from Chinese and English novels, from which we construct 14,668 parallel question-answer pairs via crowdsourced workers following a strict quality control procedure. We analyze BiPaR in depth and find that BiPaR offers good diversification in prefixes of questions, answer types and relationships between questions and passages. We also observe that answering questions of novels requires reading comprehension skills of coreference resolution, multi-sentence reasoning, and understanding of implicit causality, etc. With BiPaR, we build monolingual, multilingual, and cross-lingual MRC baseline models. Even for the relatively simple monolingual MRC on this dataset, experiments show that a strong BERT baseline is over 30 points behind human in terms of both EM and F1 score, indicating that BiPaR provides a challenging testbed for monolingual, multilingual and cross-lingual MRC on novels. The dataset is available at https://multinlp.github.io/BiPaR/.
Recent progress in pretraining language models on large textual corpora led to a surge of improvements for downstream NLP tasks. Whilst learning linguistic knowledge, these models may also be storing relational knowledge present in the training data, and may be able to answer queries structured as {``}fill-in-the-blank{''} cloze statements. Language models have many advantages over structured knowledge bases: they require no schema engineering, allow practitioners to query about an open class of relations, are easy to extend to more data, and require no human supervision to train. We present an in-depth analysis of the relational knowledge already present (without fine-tuning) in a wide range of state-of-the-art pretrained language models. We find that (i) without fine-tuning, BERT contains relational knowledge competitive with traditional NLP methods that have some access to oracle knowledge, (ii) BERT also does remarkably well on open-domain question answering against a supervised baseline, and (iii) certain types of factual knowledge are learned much more readily than others by standard language model pretraining approaches. The surprisingly strong ability of these models to recall factual knowledge without any fine-tuning demonstrates their potential as unsupervised open-domain QA systems. The code to reproduce our analysis is available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/LAMA.
Numerical reasoning, such as addition, subtraction, sorting and counting is a critical skill in human{'}s reading comprehension, which has not been well considered in existing machine reading comprehension (MRC) systems. To address this issue, we propose a numerical MRC model named as NumNet, which utilizes a numerically-aware graph neural network to consider the comparing information and performs numerical reasoning over numbers in the question and passage. Our system achieves an EM-score of 64.56{\%} on the DROP dataset, outperforming all existing machine reading comprehension models by considering the numerical relations among numbers.
We present Unicoder, a universal language encoder that is insensitive to different languages. Given an arbitrary NLP task, a model can be trained with Unicoder using training data in one language and directly applied to inputs of the same task in other languages. Comparing to similar efforts such as Multilingual BERT and XLM , three new cross-lingual pre-training tasks are proposed, including cross-lingual word recovery, cross-lingual paraphrase classification and cross-lingual masked language model. These tasks help Unicoder learn the mappings among different languages from more perspectives. We also find that doing fine-tuning on multiple languages together can bring further improvement. Experiments are performed on two tasks: cross-lingual natural language inference (XNLI) and cross-lingual question answering (XQA), where XLM is our baseline. On XNLI, 1.8{\%} averaged accuracy improvement (on 15 languages) is obtained. On XQA, which is a new cross-lingual dataset built by us, 5.5{\%} averaged accuracy improvement (on French and German) is obtained.
Text-based Question Generation (QG) aims at generating natural and relevant questions that can be answered by a given answer in some context. Existing QG models suffer from a {``}semantic drift{''} problem, i.e., the semantics of the model-generated question drifts away from the given context and answer. In this paper, we first propose two semantics-enhanced rewards obtained from downstream question paraphrasing and question answering tasks to regularize the QG model to generate semantically valid questions. Second, since the traditional evaluation metrics (e.g., BLEU) often fall short in evaluating the quality of generated questions, we propose a QA-based evaluation method which measures the QG model{'}s ability to mimic human annotators in generating QA training data. Experiments show that our method achieves the new state-of-the-art performance w.r.t. traditional metrics, and also performs best on our QA-based evaluation metrics. Further, we investigate how to use our QG model to augment QA datasets and enable semi-supervised QA. We propose two ways to generate synthetic QA pairs: generate new questions from existing articles or collect QA pairs from new articles. We also propose two empirically effective strategies, a data filter and mixing mini-batch training, to properly use the QG-generated data for QA. Experiments show that our method improves over both BiDAF and BERT QA baselines, even without introducing new articles.
In this paper, we focus on unsupervised domain adaptation for Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC), where the source domain has a large amount of labeled data, while only unlabeled passages are available in the target domain. To this end, we propose an Adversarial Domain Adaptation framework (AdaMRC), where ($i$) pseudo questions are first generated for unlabeled passages in the target domain, and then ($ii$) a domain classifier is incorporated into an MRC model to predict which domain a given passage-question pair comes from. The classifier and the passage-question encoder are jointly trained using adversarial learning to enforce domain-invariant representation learning. Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate that our approach ($i$) is generalizable to different MRC models and datasets, ($ii$) can be combined with pre-trained large-scale language models (such as ELMo and BERT), and ($iii$) can be extended to semi-supervised learning.
Commonsense and background knowledge is required for a QA model to answer many nontrivial questions. Different from existing work on knowledge-aware QA, we focus on a more challenging task of leveraging external knowledge to generate answers in natural language for a given question with context. In this paper, we propose a new neural model, Knowledge-Enriched Answer Generator (KEAG), which is able to compose a natural answer by exploiting and aggregating evidence from all four information sources available: question, passage, vocabulary and knowledge. During the process of answer generation, KEAG adaptively determines when to utilize symbolic knowledge and which fact from the knowledge is useful. This allows the model to exploit external knowledge that is not explicitly stated in the given text, but that is relevant for generating an answer. The empirical study on public benchmark of answer generation demonstrates that KEAG improves answer quality over models without knowledge and existing knowledge-aware models, confirming its effectiveness in leveraging knowledge.
Answering multiple-choice questions in a setting in which no supporting documents are explicitly provided continues to stand as a core problem in natural language processing. The contribution of this article is two-fold. First, it describes a method which can be used to semantically rank documents extracted from Wikipedia or similar natural language corpora. Second, we propose a model employing the semantic ranking that holds the first place in two of the most popular leaderboards for answering multiple-choice questions: ARC Easy and Challenge. To achieve this, we introduce a self-attention based neural network that latently learns to rank documents by their importance related to a given question, whilst optimizing the objective of predicting the correct answer. These documents are considered relevant contexts for the underlying question. We have published the ranked documents so that they can be used off-the-shelf to improve downstream decision models.
In this work, we propose to use linguistic annotations as a basis for a Discourse-Aware Semantic Self-Attention encoder that we employ for reading comprehension on narrative texts. We extract relations between discourse units, events, and their arguments as well as coreferring mentions, using available annotation tools. Our empirical evaluation shows that the investigated structures improve the overall performance (up to +3.4 Rouge-L), especially intra-sentential and cross-sentential discourse relations, sentence-internal semantic role relations, and long-distance coreference relations. We show that dedicating self-attention heads to intra-sentential relations and relations connecting neighboring sentences is beneficial for finding answers to questions in longer contexts. Our findings encourage the use of discourse-semantic annotations to enhance the generalization capacity of self-attention models for reading comprehension.
Machine Reading at Scale (MRS) is a challenging task in which a system is given an input query and is asked to produce a precise output by {``}reading{''} information from a large knowledge base. The task has gained popularity with its natural combination of information retrieval (IR) and machine comprehension (MC). Advancements in representation learning have led to separated progress in both IR and MC; however, very few studies have examined the relationship and combined design of retrieval and comprehension at different levels of granularity, for development of MRS systems. In this work, we give general guidelines on system design for MRS by proposing a simple yet effective pipeline system with special consideration on hierarchical semantic retrieval at both paragraph and sentence level, and their potential effects on the downstream task. The system is evaluated on both fact verification and open-domain multihop QA, achieving state-of-the-art results on the leaderboard test sets of both FEVER and HOTPOTQA. To further demonstrate the importance of semantic retrieval, we present ablation and analysis studies to quantify the contribution of neural retrieval modules at both paragraph-level and sentence-level, and illustrate that intermediate semantic retrieval modules are vital for not only effectively filtering upstream information and thus saving downstream computation, but also for shaping upstream data distribution and providing better data for downstream modeling.
We introduce PubMedQA, a novel biomedical question answering (QA) dataset collected from PubMed abstracts. The task of PubMedQA is to answer research questions with yes/no/maybe (e.g.: Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting?) using the corresponding abstracts. PubMedQA has 1k expert-annotated, 61.2k unlabeled and 211.3k artificially generated QA instances. Each PubMedQA instance is composed of (1) a question which is either an existing research article title or derived from one, (2) a context which is the corresponding abstract without its conclusion, (3) a long answer, which is the conclusion of the abstract and, presumably, answers the research question, and (4) a yes/no/maybe answer which summarizes the conclusion. PubMedQA is the first QA dataset where reasoning over biomedical research texts, especially their quantitative contents, is required to answer the questions. Our best performing model, multi-phase fine-tuning of BioBERT with long answer bag-of-word statistics as additional supervision, achieves 68.1{\%} accuracy, compared to single human performance of 78.0{\%} accuracy and majority-baseline of 55.2{\%} accuracy, leaving much room for improvement. PubMedQA is publicly available at https://pubmedqa.github.io.
We propose an unsupervised strategy for the selection of justification sentences for multi-hop question answering (QA) that (a) maximizes the relevance of the selected sentences, (b) minimizes the overlap between the selected facts, and (c) maximizes the coverage of both question and answer. This unsupervised sentence selection can be coupled with any supervised QA model. We show that the sentences selected by our method improve the performance of a state-of-the-art supervised QA model on two multi-hop QA datasets: AI2{'}s Reasoning Challenge (ARC) and Multi-Sentence Reading Comprehension (MultiRC). We obtain new state-of-the-art performance on both datasets among systems that do not use external resources for training the QA system: 56.82{\%} F1 on ARC (41.24{\%} on Challenge and 64.49{\%} on Easy) and 26.1{\%} EM0 on MultiRC. Our justification sentences have higher quality than the justifications selected by a strong information retrieval baseline, e.g., by 5.4{\%} F1 in MultiRC. We also show that our unsupervised selection of justification sentences is more stable across domains than a state-of-the-art supervised sentence selection method.
It is challenging for current one-step retrieve-and-read question answering (QA) systems to answer questions like {``}Which novel by the author of {`}Armada{'} will be adapted as a feature film by Steven Spielberg?{''} because the question seldom contains retrievable clues about the missing entity (here, the author). Answering such a question requires multi-hop reasoning where one must gather information about the missing entity (or facts) to proceed with further reasoning. We present GoldEn (Gold Entity) Retriever, which iterates between reading context and retrieving more supporting documents to answer open-domain multi-hop questions. Instead of using opaque and computationally expensive neural retrieval models, GoldEn Retriever generates natural language search queries given the question and available context, and leverages off-the-shelf information retrieval systems to query for missing entities. This allows GoldEn Retriever to scale up efficiently for open-domain multi-hop reasoning while maintaining interpretability. We evaluate GoldEn Retriever on the recently proposed open-domain multi-hop QA dataset, HotpotQA, and demonstrate that it outperforms the best previously published model despite not using pretrained language models such as BERT.
Generating SQL codes from natural language questions (NL2SQL) is an emerging research area. Existing studies have mainly focused on clear scenarios where specified information is fully given to generate a SQL query. However, in developer forums such as Stack Overflow, questions cover more diverse tasks including table manipulation or performance issues, where a table is not specified. The SQL query posted in Stack Overflow, Pseudo-SQL (pSQL), does not usually contain table schemas and is not necessarily executable, is sufficient to guide developers. Here we describe a new NL2pSQL task to generate pSQL codes from natural language questions on under-specified database issues, NL2pSQL. In addition, we define two new metrics suitable for the proposed NL2pSQL task, Canonical-BLEU and SQL-BLEU, instead of the conventional BLEU. With a baseline model using sequence-to-sequence architecture integrated by denoising autoencoder, we confirm the validity of our task. Experiments show that the proposed NL2pSQL approach yields well-formed queries (up to 43{\%} more than a standard Seq2Seq model). Our code and datasets will be publicly released.
Formal query generation aims to generate correct executable queries for question answering over knowledge bases (KBs), given entity and relation linking results. Current approaches build universal paraphrasing or ranking models for the whole questions, which are likely to fail in generating queries for complex, long-tail questions. In this paper, we propose SubQG, a new query generation approach based on frequent query substructures, which helps rank the existing (but nonsignificant) query structures or build new query structures. Our experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our approach significantly outperforms the existing ones, especially for complex questions. Also, it achieves promising performance with limited training data and noisy entity/relation linking results.
Knowledge Graph (KG) reasoning aims at finding reasoning paths for relations, in order to solve the problem of incompleteness in KG. Many previous path-based methods like PRA and DeepPath suffer from lacking memory components, or stuck in training. Therefore, their performances always rely on well-pretraining. In this paper, we present a deep reinforcement learning based model named by AttnPath, which incorporates LSTM and Graph Attention Mechanism as the memory components. We define two metrics, Mean Selection Rate (MSR) and Mean Replacement Rate (MRR), to quantitatively measure how difficult it is to learn the query relations, and take advantages of them to fine-tune the model under the framework of reinforcement learning. Meanwhile, a novel mechanism of reinforcement learning is proposed by forcing an agent to walk forward every step to avoid the agent stalling at the same entity node constantly. Based on this operation, the proposed model not only can get rid of the pretraining process, but also achieves state-of-the-art performance comparing with the other models. We test our model on FB15K-237 and NELL-995 datasets with different tasks. Extensive experiments show that our model is effective and competitive with many current state-of-the-art methods, and also performs well in practice.
News streams contain rich up-to-date information which can be used to update knowledge graphs (KGs). Most current text-based KG updating methods rely on elaborately designed information extraction (IE) systems and carefully crafted rules, which are often domain-specific and hard to maintain. Besides, such methods often hardly pay enough attention to the implicit information that lies underneath texts. In this paper, we propose a novel neural network method, GUpdater, to tackle these problems. GUpdater is built upon graph neural networks (GNNs) with a text-based attention mechanism to guide the updating message passing through the KG structures. Experiments on a real-world KG updating dataset show that our model can effectively broadcast the news information to the KG structures and perform necessary link-adding or link-deleting operations to ensure the KG up-to-date according to news snippets.
Knowledge graphs (KGs) often suffer from sparseness and incompleteness. Knowledge graph reasoning provides a feasible way to address such problems. Recent studies on knowledge graph reasoning have shown that reinforcement learning (RL) based methods can provide state-of-the-art performance. However, existing RL-based methods require numerous trials for path-finding and rely heavily on meticulous reward engineering to fit specific dataset, which is inefficient and laborious to apply to fast-evolving KGs. To this end, in this paper, we present DIVINE, a novel plug-and-play framework based on generative adversarial imitation learning for enhancing existing RL-based methods. DIVINE guides the path-finding process, and learns reasoning policies and reward functions self-adaptively through imitating the demonstrations automatically sampled from KGs. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets show that our framework improves the performance of existing RL-based methods while eliminating extra reward engineering.
Sentence matching is a key issue in natural language inference and paraphrase identification. Despite the recent progress on multi-layered neural network with cross sentence attention, one sentence learns attention to the intermediate representations of another sentence, which are propagated from preceding layers and therefore are uncertain and unstable for matching, particularly at the risk of error propagation. In this paper, we present an original semantics-oriented attention and deep fusion network (OSOA-DFN) for sentence matching. Unlike existing models, each attention layer of OSOA-DFN is oriented to the original semantic representation of another sentence, which captures the relevant information from a fixed matching target. The multiple attention layers allow one sentence to repeatedly read the important information of another sentence for better matching. We then additionally design deep fusion to propagate the attention information at each matching layer. At last, we introduce a self-attention mechanism to capture global context to enhance attention-aware representation within each sentence. Experiment results on three sentence matching benchmark datasets SNLI, SciTail and Quora show that OSOA-DFN has the ability to model sentence matching more precisely.
Incompleteness is a common problem for existing knowledge graphs (KGs), and the completion of KG which aims to predict links between entities is challenging. Most existing KG completion methods only consider the direct relation between nodes and ignore the relation paths which contain useful information for link prediction. Recently, a few methods take relation paths into consideration but pay less attention to the order of relations in paths which is important for reasoning. In addition, these path-based models always ignore nonlinear contributions of path features for link prediction. To solve these problems, we propose a novel KG completion method named OPTransE. Instead of embedding both entities of a relation into the same latent space as in previous methods, we project the head entity and the tail entity of each relation into different spaces to guarantee the order of relations in the path. Meanwhile, we adopt a pooling strategy to extract nonlinear and complex features of different paths to further improve the performance of link prediction. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets show that the proposed model OPTransE performs better than state-of-the-art methods.
In recent years, there has been a surge of interests in interpretable graph reasoning methods. However, these models often suffer from limited performance when working on sparse and incomplete graphs, due to the lack of evidential paths that can reach target entities. Here we study open knowledge graph reasoning{---}a task that aims to reason for missing facts over a graph augmented by a background text corpus. A key challenge of the task is to filter out {``}irrelevant{''} facts extracted from corpus, in order to maintain an effective search space during path inference. We propose a novel reinforcement learning framework to train two collaborative agents jointly, i.e., a multi-hop graph reasoner and a fact extractor. The fact extraction agent generates fact triples from corpora to enrich the graph on the fly; while the reasoning agent provides feedback to the fact extractor and guides it towards promoting facts that are helpful for the interpretable reasoning. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Understanding event and event-centered commonsense reasoning are crucial for natural language processing (NLP). Given an observed event, it is trivial for human to infer its intents and effects, while this type of If-Then reasoning still remains challenging for NLP systems. To facilitate this, a If-Then commonsense reasoning dataset Atomic is proposed, together with an RNN-based Seq2Seq model to conduct such reasoning. However, two fundamental problems still need to be addressed: first, the intents of an event may be multiple, while the generations of RNN-based Seq2Seq models are always semantically close; second, external knowledge of the event background may be necessary for understanding events and conducting the If-Then reasoning. To address these issues, we propose a novel context-aware variational autoencoder effectively learning event background information to guide the If-Then reasoning. Experimental results show that our approach improves the accuracy and diversity of inferences compared with state-of-the-art baseline methods.
Natural language inference aims to predict whether a premise sentence can infer another hypothesis sentence. Existing methods typically have framed the reasoning problem as a semantic matching task. The both sentences are encoded and interacted symmetrically and in parallel. However, in the process of reasoning, the role of the two sentences is obviously different, and the sentence pairs for NLI are asymmetrical corpora. In this paper, we propose an asynchronous deep interaction network (ADIN) to complete the task. ADIN is a neural network structure stacked with multiple inference sub-layers, and each sub-layer consists of two local inference modules in an asymmetrical manner. Different from previous methods, this model deconstructs the reasoning process and implements the asynchronous and multi-step reasoning. Experiment results show that ADIN achieves competitive performance and outperforms strong baselines on three popular benchmarks: SNLI, MultiNLI, and SciTail.
In this paper, we present a novel method for measurably adjusting the semantics of text while preserving its sentiment and fluency, a task we call semantic text exchange. This is useful for text data augmentation and the semantic correction of text generated by chatbots and virtual assistants. We introduce a pipeline called SMERTI that combines entity replacement, similarity masking, and text infilling. We measure our pipeline{'}s success by its Semantic Text Exchange Score (STES): the ability to preserve the original text{'}s sentiment and fluency while adjusting semantic content. We propose to use masking (replacement) rate threshold as an adjustable parameter to control the amount of semantic change in the text. Our experiments demonstrate that SMERTI can outperform baseline models on Yelp reviews, Amazon reviews, and news headlines.
The news coverage of events often contains not one but multiple incompatible accounts of what happened. We develop a query-based system that extracts compatible sets of events (scenarios) from such data, formulated as one-class clustering. Our system incrementally evaluates each event{'}s compatibility with already selected events, taking order into account. We use synthetic data consisting of article mixtures for scalable training and evaluate our model on a new human-curated dataset of scenarios about real-world news topics. Stronger neural network models and harder synthetic training settings are both important to achieve high performance, and our final scenario construction system substantially outperforms baselines based on prior work.
Entity alignment aims at integrating complementary knowledge graphs (KGs) from different sources or languages, which may benefit many knowledge-driven applications. It is challenging due to the heterogeneity of KGs and limited seed alignments. In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised entity alignment method by joint Knowledge Embedding model and Cross-Graph model (KECG). It can make better use of seed alignments to propagate over the entire graphs with KG-based constraints. Specifically, as for the knowledge embedding model, we utilize TransE to implicitly complete two KGs towards consistency and learn relational constraints between entities. As for the cross-graph model, we extend Graph Attention Network (GAT) with projection constraint to robustly encode graphs, and two KGs share the same GAT to transfer structural knowledge as well as to ignore unimportant neighbors for alignment via attention mechanism. Results on publicly available datasets as well as further analysis demonstrate the effectiveness of KECG. Our codes can be found in https: //github.com/THU-KEG/KECG.
Probes, supervised models trained to predict properties (like parts-of-speech) from representations (like ELMo), have achieved high accuracy on a range of linguistic tasks. But does this mean that the representations encode linguistic structure or just that the probe has learned the linguistic task? In this paper, we propose control tasks, which associate word types with random outputs, to complement linguistic tasks. By construction, these tasks can only be learned by the probe itself. So a good probe, (one that reflects the representation), should be selective, achieving high linguistic task accuracy and low control task accuracy. The selectivity of a probe puts linguistic task accuracy in context with the probe{'}s capacity to memorize from word types. We construct control tasks for English part-of-speech tagging and dependency edge prediction, and show that popular probes on ELMo representations are not selective. We also find that dropout, commonly used to control probe complexity, is ineffective for improving selectivity of MLPs, but that other forms of regularization are effective. Finally, we find that while probes on the first layer of ELMo yield slightly better part-of-speech tagging accuracy than the second, probes on the second layer are substantially more selective, which raises the question of which layer better represents parts-of-speech.
Pre-trained word embeddings like ELMo and BERT contain rich syntactic and semantic information, resulting in state-of-the-art performance on various tasks. We propose a very fast variational information bottleneck (VIB) method to nonlinearly compress these embeddings, keeping only the information that helps a discriminative parser. We compress each word embedding to either a discrete tag or a continuous vector. In the discrete version, our automatically compressed tags form an alternative tag set: we show experimentally that our tags capture most of the information in traditional POS tag annotations, but our tag sequences can be parsed more accurately at the same level of tag granularity. In the continuous version, we show experimentally that moderately compressing the word embeddings by our method yields a more accurate parser in 8 of 9 languages, unlike simple dimensionality reduction.
Transition-based and graph-based dependency parsers have previously been shown to have complementary strengths and weaknesses: transition-based parsers exploit rich structural features but suffer from error propagation, while graph-based parsers benefit from global optimization but have restricted feature scope. In this paper, we show that, even though some details of the picture have changed after the switch to neural networks and continuous representations, the basic trade-off between rich features and global optimization remains essentially the same. Moreover, we show that deep contextualized word embeddings, which allow parsers to pack information about global sentence structure into local feature representations, benefit transition-based parsers more than graph-based parsers, making the two approaches virtually equivalent in terms of both accuracy and error profile. We argue that the reason is that these representations help prevent search errors and thereby allow transition-based parsers to better exploit their inherent strength of making accurate local decisions. We support this explanation by an error analysis of parsing experiments on 13 languages.
Semantic parses are directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), so semantic parsing should be modeled as graph prediction. But predicting graphs presents difficult technical challenges, so it is simpler and more common to predict the *linearized* graphs found in semantic parsing datasets using well-understood sequence models. The cost of this simplicity is that the predicted strings may not be well-formed graphs. We present recurrent neural network DAG grammars, a graph-aware sequence model that generates only well-formed graphs while sidestepping many difficulties in graph prediction. We test our model on the Parallel Meaning Bank{---}a multilingual semantic graphbank. Our approach yields competitive results in English and establishes the first results for German, Italian and Dutch.
We present UDify, a multilingual multi-task model capable of accurately predicting universal part-of-speech, morphological features, lemmas, and dependency trees simultaneously for all 124 Universal Dependencies treebanks across 75 languages. By leveraging a multilingual BERT self-attention model pretrained on 104 languages, we found that fine-tuning it on all datasets concatenated together with simple softmax classifiers for each UD task can meet or exceed state-of-the-art UPOS, UFeats, Lemmas, (and especially) UAS, and LAS scores, without requiring any recurrent or language-specific components. We evaluate UDify for multilingual learning, showing that low-resource languages benefit the most from cross-linguistic annotations. We also evaluate for zero-shot learning, with results suggesting that multilingual training provides strong UD predictions even for languages that neither UDify nor BERT have ever been trained on.
Humans observe and interact with the world to acquire knowledge. However, most existing machine reading comprehension (MRC) tasks miss the interactive, information-seeking component of comprehension. Such tasks present models with static documents that contain all necessary information, usually concentrated in a single short substring. Thus, models can achieve strong performance through simple word- and phrase-based pattern matching. We address this problem by formulating a novel text-based question answering task: Question Answering with Interactive Text (QAit). In QAit, an agent must interact with a partially observable text-based environment to gather information required to answer questions. QAit poses questions about the existence, location, and attributes of objects found in the environment. The data is built using a text-based game generator that defines the underlying dynamics of interaction with the environment. We propose and evaluate a set of baseline models for the QAit task that includes deep reinforcement learning agents. Experiments show that the task presents a major challenge for machine reading systems, while humans solve it with relative ease.
Multi-hop textual question answering requires combining information from multiple sentences. We focus on a natural setting where, unlike typical reading comprehension, only partial information is provided with each question. The model must retrieve and use additional knowledge to correctly answer the question. To tackle this challenge, we develop a novel approach that explicitly identifies the knowledge gap between a key span in the provided knowledge and the answer choices. The model, GapQA, learns to fill this gap by determining the relationship between the span and an answer choice, based on retrieved knowledge targeting this gap. We propose jointly training a model to simultaneously fill this knowledge gap and compose it with the provided partial knowledge. On the OpenBookQA dataset, given partial knowledge, explicitly identifying what{'}s missing substantially outperforms previous approaches.
Commonsense reasoning aims to empower machines with the human ability to make presumptions about ordinary situations in our daily life. In this paper, we propose a textual inference framework for answering commonsense questions, which effectively utilizes external, structured commonsense knowledge graphs to perform explainable inferences. The framework first grounds a question-answer pair from the semantic space to the knowledge-based symbolic space as a schema graph, a related sub-graph of external knowledge graphs. It represents schema graphs with a novel knowledge-aware graph network module named KagNet, and finally scores answers with graph representations. Our model is based on graph convolutional networks and LSTMs, with a hierarchical path-based attention mechanism. The intermediate attention scores make it transparent and interpretable, which thus produce trustworthy inferences. Using ConceptNet as the only external resource for Bert-based models, we achieved state-of-the-art performance on the CommonsenseQA, a large-scale dataset for commonsense reasoning.
This paper studies the problem of supporting question answering in a new language with limited training resources. As an extreme scenario, when no such resource exists, one can (1) transfer labels from another language, and (2) generate labels from unlabeled data, using translator and automatic labeling function respectively. However, these approaches inevitably introduce noises to the training data, due to translation or generation errors, which require a judicious use of data with varying confidence. To address this challenge, we propose a weakly-supervised framework that quantifies such noises from automatically generated labels, to deemphasize or fix noisy data in training. On reading comprehension task, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on low-resource languages with varying similarity to English, namely, Korean and French.
Many question answering (QA) tasks only provide weak supervision for how the answer should be computed. For example, TriviaQA answers are entities that can be mentioned multiple times in supporting documents, while DROP answers can be computed by deriving many different equations from numbers in the reference text. In this paper, we show it is possible to convert such tasks into discrete latent variable learning problems with a precomputed, task-specific set of possible solutions (e.g. different mentions or equations) that contains one correct option. We then develop a hard EM learning scheme that computes gradients relative to the most likely solution at each update. Despite its simplicity, we show that this approach significantly outperforms previous methods on six QA tasks, including absolute gains of 2{--}10{\%}, and achieves the state-of-the-art on five of them. Using hard updates instead of maximizing marginal likelihood is key to these results as it encourages the model to find the one correct answer, which we show through detailed qualitative analysis.
This work aims at modeling how the meaning of gradable adjectives of size ({`}big{'}, {`}small{'}) can be learned from visually-grounded contexts. Inspired by cognitive and linguistic evidence showing that the use of these expressions relies on setting a threshold that is dependent on a specific context, we investigate the ability of multi-modal models in assessing whether an object is {`}big{'} or {`}small{'} in a given visual scene. In contrast with the standard computational approach that simplistically treats gradable adjectives as {`}fixed{'} attributes, we pose the problem as relational: to be successful, a model has to consider the full visual context. By means of four main tasks, we show that state-of-the-art models (but not a relatively strong baseline) can learn the function subtending the meaning of size adjectives, though their performance is found to decrease while moving from simple to more complex tasks. Crucially, models fail in developing abstract representations of gradable adjectives that can be used compositionally.
Though state-of-the-art sentence representation models can perform tasks requiring significant knowledge of grammar, it is an open question how best to evaluate their grammatical knowledge. We explore five experimental methods inspired by prior work evaluating pretrained sentence representation models. We use a single linguistic phenomenon, negative polarity item (NPI) licensing, as a case study for our experiments. NPIs like any are grammatical only if they appear in a licensing environment like negation (Sue doesn{'}t have any cats vs. *Sue has any cats). This phenomenon is challenging because of the variety of NPI licensing environments that exist. We introduce an artificially generated dataset that manipulates key features of NPI licensing for the experiments. We find that BERT has significant knowledge of these features, but its success varies widely across different experimental methods. We conclude that a variety of methods is necessary to reveal all relevant aspects of a model{'}s grammatical knowledge in a given domain.
Neural language models have achieved state-of-the-art performances on many NLP tasks, and recently have been shown to learn a number of hierarchically-sensitive syntactic dependencies between individual words. However, equally important for language processing is the ability to combine words into phrasal constituents, and use constituent-level features to drive downstream expectations. Here we investigate neural models{'} ability to represent constituent-level features, using coordinated noun phrases as a case study. We assess whether different neural language models trained on English and French represent phrase-level number and gender features, and use those features to drive downstream expectations. Our results suggest that models use a linear combination of NP constituent number to drive CoordNP/verb number agreement. This behavior is highly regular and even sensitive to local syntactic context, however it differs crucially from observed human behavior. Models have less success with gender agreement. Models trained on large corpora perform best, and there is no obvious advantage for models trained using explicit syntactic supervision.
Can we construct a neural language model which is inductively biased towards learning human language? Motivated by this question, we aim at constructing an informative prior for held-out languages on the task of character-level, open-vocabulary language modelling. We obtain this prior as the posterior over network weights conditioned on the data from a sample of training languages, which is approximated through Laplace{'}s method. Based on a large and diverse sample of languages, the use of our prior outperforms baseline models with an uninformative prior in both zero-shot and few-shot settings, showing that the prior is imbued with universal linguistic knowledge. Moreover, we harness broad language-specific information available for most languages of the world, i.e., features from typological databases, as distant supervision for held-out languages. We explore several language modelling conditioning techniques, including concatenation and meta-networks for parameter generation. They appear beneficial in the few-shot setting, but ineffective in the zero-shot setting. Since the paucity of even plain digital text affects the majority of the world{'}s languages, we hope that these insights will broaden the scope of applications for language technology.
Explanations are central to everyday life, and are a topic of growing interest in the AI community. To investigate the process of providing natural language explanations, we leverage the dynamics of the /r/ChangeMyView subreddit to build a dataset with 36K naturally occurring explanations of why an argument is persuasive. We propose a novel word-level prediction task to investigate how explanations selectively reuse, or echo, information from what is being explained (henceforth, explanandum). We develop features to capture the properties of a word in the explanandum, and show that our proposed features not only have relatively strong predictive power on the echoing of a word in an explanation, but also enhance neural methods of generating explanations. In particular, while the non-contextual properties of a word itself are more valuable for stopwords, the interaction between the constituent parts of an explanandum is crucial in predicting the echoing of content words. We also find intriguing patterns of a word being echoed. For example, although nouns are generally less likely to be echoed, subjects and objects can, depending on their source, be more likely to be echoed in the explanations.
In argumentation, framing is used to emphasize a specific aspect of a controversial topic while concealing others. When talking about legalizing drugs, for instance, its economical aspect may be emphasized. In general, we call a set of arguments that focus on the same aspect a frame. An argumentative text has to serve the {``}right{''} frame(s) to convince the audience to adopt the author{'}s stance (e.g., being pro or con legalizing drugs). More specifically, an author has to choose frames that fit the audience{'}s cultural background and interests. This paper introduces frame identification, which is the task of splitting a set of arguments into non-overlapping frames. We present a fully unsupervised approach to this task, which first removes topical information and then identifies frames using clustering. For evaluation purposes, we provide a corpus with 12, 326 debate-portal arguments, organized along the frames of the debates{'} topics. On this corpus, our approach outperforms different strong baselines, achieving an F1-score of 0.28.
Argumentation is a type of discourse where speakers try to persuade their audience about the reasonableness of a claim by presenting supportive arguments. Most work in argument mining has focused on modeling arguments in monologues. We propose a computational model for argument mining in online persuasive discussion forums that brings together the micro-level (argument as product) and macro-level (argument as process) models of argumentation. Fundamentally, this approach relies on identifying relations between components of arguments in a discussion thread. Our approach for relation prediction uses contextual information in terms of fine-tuning a pre-trained language model and leveraging discourse relations based on Rhetorical Structure Theory. We additionally propose a candidate selection method to automatically predict what parts of one{'}s argument will be targeted by other participants in the discussion. Our models obtain significant improvements compared to recent state-of-the-art approaches using pointer networks and a pre-trained language model.
Automated fact verification has been progressing owing to advancements in modeling and availability of large datasets. Due to the nature of the task, it is critical to understand the vulnerabilities of these systems against adversarial instances designed to make them predict incorrectly. We introduce two novel scoring metrics, attack potency and system resilience which take into account the correctness of the adversarial instances, an aspect often ignored in adversarial evaluations. We consider six fact verification systems from the recent Fact Extraction and VERification (FEVER) challenge: the four best-scoring ones and two baselines. We evaluate adversarial instances generated by a recently proposed state-of-the-art method, a paraphrasing method, and rule-based attacks devised for fact verification. We find that our rule-based attacks have higher potency, and that while the rankings among the top systems changed, they exhibited higher resilience than the baselines.
Annotation quality control is a critical aspect for building reliable corpora through linguistic annotation. In this study, we present a simple but powerful quality control method using two-step reason selection. We gathered sentential annotations of local acceptance and three related attributes through a crowdsourcing platform. For each attribute, the reason for the choice of the attribute value is selected in a two-step manner. The options given for reason selection were designed to facilitate the detection of a nonsensical reason selection. We assume that a sentential annotation that contains a nonsensical reason is less reliable than the one without such reason. Our method, based solely on this assumption, is found to retain the annotations with satisfactory quality out of the entire annotations mixed with those of low quality.
The ongoing neural revolution in machine translation has made it easier to model larger contexts beyond the sentence-level, which can potentially help resolve some discourse-level ambiguities such as pronominal anaphora, thus enabling better translations. Unfortunately, even when the resulting improvements are seen as substantial by humans, they remain virtually unnoticed by traditional automatic evaluation measures like BLEU, as only a few words end up being affected. Thus, specialized evaluation measures are needed. With this aim in mind, we contribute an extensive, targeted dataset that can be used as a test suite for pronoun translation, covering multiple source languages and different pronoun errors drawn from real system translations, for English. We further propose an evaluation measure to differentiate good and bad pronoun translations. We also conduct a user study to report correlations with human judgments.
We argue that external commonsense knowledge and linguistic constraints need to be incorporated into neural network models for mitigating data sparsity issues and further improving the performance of discourse parsing. Realizing that external knowledge and linguistic constraints may not always apply in understanding a particular context, we propose a regularization approach that tightly integrates these constraints with contexts for deriving word representations. Meanwhile, it balances attentions over contexts and constraints through adding a regularization term into the objective function. Experiments show that our knowledge regularization approach outperforms all previous systems on the benchmark dataset PDTB for discourse parsing.
We present a method for extracting causality knowledge from Wikipedia, such as Protectionism -{\textgreater} Trade war, where the cause and effect entities correspond to Wikipedia articles. Such causality knowledge is easy to verify by reading corresponding Wikipedia articles, to translate to multiple languages through Wikidata, and to connect to knowledge bases derived from Wikipedia. Our method exploits Wikipedia article sections that describe causality and the redundancy stemming from the multilinguality of Wikipedia. Experiments showed that our method achieved precision and recall above 98{\%} and 64{\%}, respectively. In particular, it could extract causalities whose cause and effect were written distantly in a Wikipedia article. We have released the code and data for further research.
Review summarization aims to generate a condensed summary for a review or multiple reviews. Existing review summarization systems mainly generate summary only based on review content and neglect the authors{'} attributes (e.g., gender, age, and occupation). In fact, when summarizing a review, users with different attributes usually pay attention to specific aspects and have their own word-using habits or writing styles. Therefore, we propose an Attribute-aware Sequence Network (ASN) to take the aforementioned users{'} characteristics into account, which includes three modules: an attribute encoder encodes the attribute preferences over the words; an attribute-aware review encoder adopts an attribute-based selective mechanism to select the important information of a review; and an attribute-aware summary decoder incorporates attribute embedding and attribute-specific word-using habits into word prediction. To validate our model, we collect a new dataset TripAtt, comprising 495,440 attribute-review-summary triplets with three kinds of attribute information: gender, age, and travel status. Extensive experiments show that ASN achieves state-of-the-art performance on review summarization in both auto-metric ROUGE and human evaluation.
In this paper, we propose a novel neural single-document extractive summarization model for long documents, incorporating both the global context of the whole document and the local context within the current topic. We evaluate the model on two datasets of scientific papers , Pubmed and arXiv, where it outperforms previous work, both extractive and abstractive models, on ROUGE-1, ROUGE-2 and METEOR scores. We also show that, consistently with our goal, the benefits of our method become stronger as we apply it to longer documents. Rather surprisingly, an ablation study indicates that the benefits of our model seem to come exclusively from modeling the local context, even for the longest documents.
Recent neural models for data-to-text generation rely on massive parallel pairs of data and text to learn the writing knowledge. They often assume that writing knowledge can be acquired from the training data alone. However, when people are writing, they not only rely on the data but also consider related knowledge. In this paper, we enhance neural data-to-text models with external knowledge in a simple but effective way to improve the fidelity of generated text. Besides relying on parallel data and text as in previous work, our model attends to relevant external knowledge, encoded as a temporary memory, and combines this knowledge with the context representation of data before generating words. This allows the model to infer relevant facts which are not explicitly stated in the data table from an external knowledge source. Experimental results on twenty-one Wikipedia infobox-to-text datasets show our model, KBAtt, consistently improves a state-of-the-art model on most of the datasets. In addition, to quantify when and why external knowledge is effective, we design a metric, KBGain, which shows a strong correlation with the observed performance boost. This result demonstrates the relevance of external knowledge and sparseness of original data are the main factors affecting system performance.
In this work, we re-examine the problem of extractive text summarization for long documents. We observe that the process of extracting summarization of human can be divided into two stages: 1) a rough reading stage to look for sketched information, and 2) a subsequent careful reading stage to select key sentences to form the summary. By simulating such a two-stage process, we propose a novel approach for extractive summarization. We formulate the problem as a contextual-bandit problem and solve it with policy gradient. We adopt a convolutional neural network to encode gist of paragraphs for rough reading, and a decision making policy with an adapted termination mechanism for careful reading. Experiments on the CNN and DailyMail datasets show that our proposed method can provide high-quality summaries with varied length, and significantly outperform the state-of-the-art extractive methods in terms of ROUGE metrics.
We propose a contrastive attention mechanism to extend the sequence-to-sequence framework for abstractive sentence summarization task, which aims to generate a brief summary of a given source sentence. The proposed contrastive attention mechanism accommodates two categories of attention: one is the conventional attention that attends to relevant parts of the source sentence, the other is the opponent attention that attends to irrelevant or less relevant parts of the source sentence. Both attentions are trained in an opposite way so that the contribution from the conventional attention is encouraged and the contribution from the opponent attention is discouraged through a novel softmax and softmin functionality. Experiments on benchmark datasets show that, the proposed contrastive attention mechanism is more focused on the relevant parts for the summary than the conventional attention mechanism, and greatly advances the state-of-the-art performance on the abstractive sentence summarization task. We release the code at https://github.com/travel-go/ Abstractive-Text-Summarization.
Cross-lingual summarization (CLS) is the task to produce a summary in one particular language for a source document in a different language. Existing methods simply divide this task into two steps: summarization and translation, leading to the problem of error propagation. To handle that, we present an end-to-end CLS framework, which we refer to as Neural Cross-Lingual Summarization (NCLS), for the first time. Moreover, we propose to further improve NCLS by incorporating two related tasks, monolingual summarization and machine translation, into the training process of CLS under multi-task learning. Due to the lack of supervised CLS data, we propose a round-trip translation strategy to acquire two high-quality large-scale CLS datasets based on existing monolingual summarization datasets. Experimental results have shown that our NCLS achieves remarkable improvement over traditional pipeline methods on both English-to-Chinese and Chinese-to-English CLS human-corrected test sets. In addition, NCLS with multi-task learning can further significantly improve the quality of generated summaries. We make our dataset and code publicly available here: http://www.nlpr.ia.ac.cn/cip/dataset.htm.
Sensational headlines are headlines that capture people{'}s attention and generate reader interest. Conventional abstractive headline generation methods, unlike human writers, do not optimize for maximal reader attention. In this paper, we propose a model that generates sensational headlines without labeled data. We first train a sensationalism scorer by classifying online headlines with many comments ({``}clickbait{''}) against a baseline of headlines generated from a summarization model. The score from the sensationalism scorer is used as the reward for a reinforcement learner. However, maximizing the noisy sensationalism reward will generate unnatural phrases instead of sensational headlines. To effectively leverage this noisy reward, we propose a novel loss function, Auto-tuned Reinforcement Learning (ARL), to dynamically balance reinforcement learning (RL) with maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). Human evaluation shows that 60.8{\%} of samples generated by our model are sensational, which is significantly better than the Pointer-Gen baseline and other RL models.
A quality abstractive summary should not only copy salient source texts as summaries but should also tend to generate new conceptual words to express concrete details. Inspired by the popular pointer generator sequence-to-sequence model, this paper presents a concept pointer network for improving these aspects of abstractive summarization. The network leverages knowledge-based, context-aware conceptualizations to derive an extended set of candidate concepts. The model then points to the most appropriate choice using both the concept set and original source text. This joint approach generates abstractive summaries with higher-level semantic concepts. The training model is also optimized in a way that adapts to different data, which is based on a novel method of distant-supervised learning guided by reference summaries and testing set. Overall, the proposed approach provides statistically significant improvements over several state-of-the-art models on both the DUC-2004 and Gigaword datasets. A human evaluation of the model{'}s abstractive abilities also supports the quality of the summaries produced within this framework.
Text attribute transfer aims to automatically rewrite sentences such that they possess certain linguistic attributes, while simultaneously preserving their semantic content. This task remains challenging due to a lack of supervised parallel data. Existing approaches try to explicitly disentangle content and attribute information, but this is difficult and often results in poor content-preservation and ungrammaticality. In contrast, we propose a simpler approach, Iterative Matching and Translation (IMaT), which: (1) constructs a pseudo-parallel corpus by aligning a subset of semantically similar sentences from the source and the target corpora; (2) applies a standard sequence-to-sequence model to learn the attribute transfer; (3) iteratively improves the learned transfer function by refining imperfections in the alignment. In sentiment modification and formality transfer tasks, our method outperforms complex state-of-the-art systems by a large margin. As an auxiliary contribution, we produce a publicly-available test set with human-generated transfer references.
Reinforcement Learning (RL)based document summarisation systems yield state-of-the-art performance in terms of ROUGE scores, because they directly use ROUGE as the rewards during training. However, summaries with high ROUGE scores often receive low human judgement. To find a better reward function that can guide RL to generate human-appealing summaries, we learn a reward function from human ratings on 2,500 summaries. Our reward function only takes the document and system summary as input. Hence, once trained, it can be used to train RL based summarisation systems without using any reference summaries. We show that our learned rewards have significantly higher correlation with human ratings than previous approaches. Human evaluation experiments show that, compared to the state-of-the-art supervised-learning systems and ROUGE-as-rewards RL summarisation systems, the RL systems using our learned rewards during training generate summaries with higher human ratings. The learned reward function and our source code are available at https://github.com/yg211/summary-reward-no-reference.
Generating diverse sequences is important in many NLP applications such as question generation or summarization that exhibit semantically one-to-many relationships between source and the target sequences. We present a method to explicitly separate diversification from generation using a general plug-and-play module (called SELECTOR) that wraps around and guides an existing encoder-decoder model. The diversification stage uses a mixture of experts to sample different binary masks on the source sequence for diverse content selection. The generation stage uses a standard encoder-decoder model given each selected content from the source sequence. Due to the non-differentiable nature of discrete sampling and the lack of ground truth labels for binary mask, we leverage a proxy for ground truth mask and adopt stochastic hard-EM for training. In question generation (SQuAD) and abstractive summarization (CNN-DM), our method demonstrates significant improvements in accuracy, diversity and training efficiency, including state-of-the-art top-1 accuracy in both datasets, 6{\%} gain in top-5 accuracy, and 3.7 times faster training over a state-of-the-art model. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/clovaai/FocusSeq2Seq.
Generating high-quality paraphrases is a fundamental yet challenging natural language processing task. Despite the effectiveness of previous work based on generative models, there remain problems with exposure bias in recurrent neural networks, and often a failure to generate realistic sentences. To overcome these challenges, we propose the first end-to-end conditional generative architecture for generating paraphrases via adversarial training, which does not depend on extra linguistic information. Extensive experiments on four public datasets demonstrate the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art results, outperforming previous generative architectures on both automatic metrics (BLEU, METEOR, and TER) and human evaluations.
Although Seq2Seq models for table-to-text generation have achieved remarkable progress, modeling table representation in one dimension is inadequate. This is because (1) the table consists of multiple rows and columns, which means that encoding a table should not depend only on one dimensional sequence or set of records and (2) most of the tables are time series data (e.g. NBA game data, stock market data), which means that the description of the current table may be affected by its historical data. To address aforementioned problems, not only do we model each table cell considering other records in the same row, we also enrich table{'}s representation by modeling each table cell in context of other cells in the same column or with historical (time dimension) data respectively. In addition, we develop a table cell fusion gate to combine representations from row, column and time dimension into one dense vector according to the saliency of each dimension{'}s representation. We evaluated our methods on ROTOWIRE, a benchmark dataset of NBA basketball games. Both automatic and human evaluation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our model with improvement of 2.66 in BLEU over the strong baseline and outperformance of state-of-the-art model.
In multi-document summarization, a set of documents to be summarized is assumed to be on the same topic, known as the underlying topic in this paper. That is, the underlying topic can be collectively represented by all the documents in the set. Meanwhile, different documents may cover various different subtopics and the same subtopic can be across several documents. Inspired by topic model, the underlying topic of a document set can also be viewed as a collection of different subtopics of different importance. In this paper, we propose a summarization model called STDS. The model generates the underlying topic representation from both document view and subtopic view in parallel. The learning objective is to minimize the distance between the representations learned from the two views. The contextual information is encoded through a hierarchical RNN architecture. Sentence salience is estimated in a hierarchical way with subtopic salience and relative sentence salience, by considering the contextual information. Top ranked sentences are then extracted as a summary. Note that the notion of subtopic enables us to bring in additional information (e.g. comments to news articles) that is helpful for document summarization. Experimental results show that the proposed solution outperforms state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets.
Referring Expression Generation (REG) is the task of generating contextually appropriate references to entities. A limitation of existing REG systems is that they rely on entity-specific supervised training, which means that they cannot handle entities not seen during training. In this study, we address this in two ways. First, we propose task setups in which we specifically test a REG system{'}s ability to generalize to entities not seen during training. Second, we propose a profile-based deep neural network model, ProfileREG, which encodes both the local context and an external profile of the entity to generate reference realizations. Our model generates tokens by learning to choose between generating pronouns, generating from a fixed vocabulary, or copying a word from the profile. We evaluate our model on three different splits of the WebNLG dataset, and show that it outperforms competitive baselines in all settings according to automatic and human evaluations.
Paraphrasing plays an important role in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as question answering, information retrieval and sentence simplification. Recently, neural generative models have shown promising results in paraphrase generation. However, prior work mainly focused on single paraphrase generation, while ignoring the fact that diversity is essential for enhancing generalization capability and robustness of downstream applications. Few works have been done to solve diverse paraphrase generation. In this paper, we propose a novel approach with two discriminators and multiple generators to generate a variety of different paraphrases. A reinforcement learning algorithm is applied to train our model. Our experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate that our model not only gains a significant increase in diversity but also improves generation quality over several state-of-the-art baselines.
Generating text from graph-based data, such as Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR), is a challenging task due to the inherent difficulty in how to properly encode the structure of a graph with labeled edges. To address this difficulty, we propose a novel graph-to-sequence model that encodes different but complementary perspectives of the structural information contained in the AMR graph. The model learns parallel top-down and bottom-up representations of nodes capturing contrasting views of the graph. We also investigate the use of different node message passing strategies, employing different state-of-the-art graph encoders to compute node representations based on incoming and outgoing perspectives. In our experiments, we demonstrate that the dual graph representation leads to improvements in AMR-to-text generation, achieving state-of-the-art results on two AMR datasets
The automated generation of information indicating the characteristics of articles such as headlines, key phrases, summaries and categories helps writers to alleviate their workload. Previous research has tackled these tasks using neural abstractive summarization and classification methods. However, the outputs may be inconsistent if they are generated individually. The purpose of our study is to generate multiple outputs consistently. We introduce a multi-task learning model with a shared encoder and multiple decoders for each task. We propose a novel loss function called hierarchical consistency loss to maintain consistency among the attention weights of the decoders. To evaluate the consistency, we employ a human evaluation. The results show that our model generates more consistent headlines, key phrases and categories. In addition, our model outperforms the baseline model on the ROUGE scores, and generates more adequate and fluent headlines.
In this paper, we introduce a novel task called feedback comment generation {---} a task of automatically generating feedback comments such as a hint or an explanatory note for writing learning for non-native learners of English. There has been almost no work on this task nor corpus annotated with feedback comments. We have taken the first step by creating learner corpora consisting of approximately 1,900 essays where all preposition errors are manually annotated with feedback comments. We have tested three baseline methods on the dataset, showing that a simple neural retrieval-based method sets a baseline performance with an F-measure of 0.34 to 0.41. Finally, we have looked into the results to explore what modifications we need to make to achieve better performance. We also have explored problems unaddressed in this work
Question generation (QG) is the task of generating a question from a reference sentence and a specified answer within the sentence. A major challenge in QG is to identify answer-relevant context words to finish the declarative-to-interrogative sentence transformation. Existing sequence-to-sequence neural models achieve this goal by proximity-based answer position encoding under the intuition that neighboring words of answers are of high possibility to be answer-relevant. However, such intuition may not apply to all cases especially for sentences with complex answer-relevant relations. Consequently, the performance of these models drops sharply when the relative distance between the answer fragment and other non-stop sentence words that also appear in the ground truth question increases. To address this issue, we propose a method to jointly model the unstructured sentence and the structured answer-relevant relation (extracted from the sentence in advance) for question generation. Specifically, the structured answer-relevant relation acts as the to the point context and it thus naturally helps keep the generated question to the point, while the unstructured sentence provides the full information. Extensive experiments show that to the point context helps our question generation model achieve significant improvements on several automatic evaluation metrics. Furthermore, our model is capable of generating diverse questions for a sentence which conveys multiple relations of its answer fragment.
Most text-to-text generation tasks, for example text summarisation and text simplification, require copying words from the input to the output. We introduce Copycat, a transformer-based pointer network for such tasks which obtains competitive results in abstractive text summarisation and generates more abstractive summaries. We propose a further extension of this architecture for automatic post-editing, where generation is conditioned over two inputs (source language and machine translation), and the model is capable of deciding where to copy information from. This approach achieves competitive performance when compared to state-of-the-art automated post-editing systems. More importantly, we show that it addresses a well-known limitation of automatic post-editing - overcorrecting translations - and that our novel mechanism for copying source language words improves the results.
In this paper, we propose a novel model RevGAN that automatically generates controllable and personalized user reviews based on the arbitrarily given sentimental and stylistic information. RevGAN utilizes the combination of three novel components, including self-attentive recursive autoencoders, conditional discriminators, and personalized decoders. We test its performance on the several real-world datasets, where our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art generation models in terms of sentence quality, coherence, personalization, and human evaluations. We also empirically show that the generated reviews could not be easily distinguished from the organically produced reviews and that they follow the same statistical linguistics laws.
Abstractive summarization approaches based on Reinforcement Learning (RL) have recently been proposed to overcome classical likelihood maximization. RL enables to consider complex, possibly non differentiable, metrics that globally assess the quality and relevance of the generated outputs. ROUGE, the most used summarization metric, is known to suffer from bias towards lexical similarity as well as from sub-optimal accounting for fluency and readability of the generated abstracts. We thus explore and propose alternative evaluation measures: the reported human-evaluation analysis shows that the proposed metrics, based on Question Answering, favorably compare to ROUGE {--} with the additional property of not requiring reference summaries. Training a RL-based model on these metrics leads to improvements (both in terms of human or automated metrics) over current approaches that use ROUGE as reward.
Existing neural methods for data-to-text generation are still struggling to produce long and diverse texts: they are insufficient to model input data dynamically during generation, to capture inter-sentence coherence, or to generate diversified expressions. To address these issues, we propose a Planning-based Hierarchical Variational Model (PHVM). Our model first plans a sequence of groups (each group is a subset of input items to be covered by a sentence) and then realizes each sentence conditioned on the planning result and the previously generated context, thereby decomposing long text generation into dependent sentence generation sub-tasks. To capture expression diversity, we devise a hierarchical latent structure where a global planning latent variable models the diversity of reasonable planning and a sequence of local latent variables controls sentence realization. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in long and diverse text generation.
Text style transfer is the task of transferring the style of text having certain stylistic attributes, while preserving non-stylistic or content information. In this work we introduce the Generative Style Transformer (GST) - a new approach to rewriting sentences to a target style in the absence of parallel style corpora. GST leverages the power of both, large unsupervised pre-trained language models as well as the Transformer. GST is a part of a larger {`}Delete Retrieve Generate{'} framework, in which we also propose a novel method of deleting style attributes from the source sentence by exploiting the inner workings of the Transformer. Our models outperform state-of-art systems across 5 datasets on sentiment, gender and political slant transfer. We also propose the use of the GLEU metric as an automatic metric of evaluation of style transfer, which we found to compare better with human ratings than the predominantly used BLEU score.
Abstractive summarization systems aim to produce more coherent and concise summaries than their extractive counterparts. Popular neural models have achieved impressive results for single-document summarization, yet their outputs are often incoherent and unfaithful to the input. In this paper, we introduce SENECA, a novel System for ENtity-drivEn Coherent Abstractive summarization framework that leverages entity information to generate informative and coherent abstracts. Our framework takes a two-step approach: (1) an entity-aware content selection module first identifies salient sentences from the input, then (2) an abstract generation module conducts cross-sentence information compression and abstraction to generate the final summary, which is trained with rewards to promote coherence, conciseness, and clarity. The two components are further connected using reinforcement learning. Automatic evaluation shows that our model significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-art based on ROUGE and our proposed coherence measures on New York Times and CNN/Daily Mail datasets. Human judges further rate our system summaries as more informative and coherent than those by popular summarization models.
Recent neural network approaches to summarization are largely either selection-based extraction or generation-based abstraction. In this work, we present a neural model for single-document summarization based on joint extraction and syntactic compression. Our model chooses sentences from the document, identifies possible compressions based on constituency parses, and scores those compressions with a neural model to produce the final summary. For learning, we construct oracle extractive-compressive summaries, then learn both of our components jointly with this supervision. Experimental results on the CNN/Daily Mail and New York Times datasets show that our model achieves strong performance (comparable to state-of-the-art systems) as evaluated by ROUGE. Moreover, our approach outperforms an off-the-shelf compression module, and human and manual evaluation shows that our model{'}s output generally remains grammatical.
Text style transfer without parallel data has achieved some practical success. However, in the scenario where less data is available, these methods may yield poor performance. In this paper, we examine domain adaptation for text style transfer to leverage massively available data from other domains. These data may demonstrate domain shift, which impedes the benefits of utilizing such data for training. To address this challenge, we propose simple yet effective domain adaptive text style transfer models, enabling domain-adaptive information exchange. The proposed models presumably learn from the source domain to: (i) distinguish stylized information and generic content information; (ii) maximally preserve content information; and (iii) adaptively transfer the styles in a domain-aware manner. We evaluate the proposed models on two style transfer tasks (sentiment and formality) over multiple target domains where only limited non-parallel data is available. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model compared to the baselines.
In this work, we focus on the task of Automatic Question Generation (AQG) where given a passage and an answer the task is to generate the corresponding question. It is desired that the generated question should be (i) grammatically correct (ii) answerable from the passage and (iii) specific to the given answer. An analysis of existing AQG models shows that they produce questions which do not adhere to one or more of {the above-mentioned qualities}. In particular, the generated questions look like an incomplete draft of the desired question with a clear scope for refinement. {To alleviate this shortcoming}, we propose a method which tries to mimic the human process of generating questions by first creating an initial draft and then refining it. More specifically, we propose Refine Network (RefNet) which contains two decoders. The second decoder uses a dual attention network which pays attention to both (i) the original passage and (ii) the question (initial draft) generated by the first decoder. In effect, it refines the question generated by the first decoder, thereby making it more correct and complete. We evaluate RefNet on three datasets, \textit{viz.}, SQuAD, HOTPOT-QA, and DROP, and show that it outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods by 7-16{\%} on all of these datasets. Lastly, we show that we can improve the quality of the second decoder on specific metrics, such as, fluency and answerability by explicitly rewarding revisions that improve on the corresponding metric during training. The code has been made publicly available .
Despite the recent developments on neural summarization systems, the underlying logic behind the improvements from the systems and its corpus-dependency remains largely unexplored. Position of sentences in the original text, for example, is a well known bias for news summarization. Following in the spirit of the claim that summarization is a combination of sub-functions, we define three sub-aspects of summarization: position, importance, and diversity and conduct an extensive analysis of the biases of each sub-aspect with respect to the domain of nine different summarization corpora (e.g., news, academic papers, meeting minutes, movie script, books, posts). We find that while position exhibits substantial bias in news articles, this is not the case, for example, with academic papers and meeting minutes. Furthermore, our empirical study shows that different types of summarization systems (e.g., neural-based) are composed of different degrees of the sub-aspects. Our study provides useful lessons regarding consideration of underlying sub-aspects when collecting a new summarization dataset or developing a new system.
The task of bilingual dictionary induction (BDI) is commonly used for intrinsic evaluation of cross-lingual word embeddings. The largest dataset for BDI was generated automatically, so its quality is dubious. We study the composition and quality of the test sets for five diverse languages from this dataset, with concerning findings: (1) a quarter of the data consists of proper nouns, which can be hardly indicative of BDI performance, and (2) there are pervasive gaps in the gold-standard targets. These issues appear to affect the ranking between cross-lingual embedding systems on individual languages, and the overall degree to which the systems differ in performance. With proper nouns removed from the data, the margin between the top two systems included in the study grows from 3.4{\%} to 17.2{\%}. Manual verification of the predictions, on the other hand, reveals that gaps in the gold standard targets artificially inflate the margin between the two systems on English to Bulgarian BDI from 0.1{\%} to 6.7{\%}. We thus suggest that future research either avoids drawing conclusions from quantitative results on this BDI dataset, or accompanies such evaluation with rigorous error analysis.
Development sets are impractical to obtain for real low-resource languages, since using all available data for training is often more effective. However, development sets are widely used in research papers that purport to deal with low-resource natural language processing (NLP). Here, we aim to answer the following questions: Does using a development set for early stopping in the low-resource setting influence results as compared to a more realistic alternative, where the number of training epochs is tuned on development languages? And does it lead to overestimation or underestimation of performance? We repeat multiple experiments from recent work on neural models for low-resource NLP and compare results for models obtained by training with and without development sets. On average over languages, absolute accuracy differs by up to 1.4{\%}. However, for some languages and tasks, differences are as big as 18.0{\%} accuracy. Our results highlight the importance of realistic experimental setups in the publication of low-resource NLP research results.
In this paper, we introduce a novel interactive approach to translate a source language into two different languages simultaneously and interactively. Specifically, the generation of one language relies on not only previously generated outputs by itself, but also the outputs predicted in the other language. Experimental results on IWSLT and WMT datasets demonstrate that our method can obtain significant improvements over both conventional Neural Machine Translation (NMT) model and multilingual NMT model.
We report on search errors and model errors in neural machine translation (NMT). We present an exact inference procedure for neural sequence models based on a combination of beam search and depth-first search. We use our exact search to find the global best model scores under a Transformer base model for the entire WMT15 English-German test set. Surprisingly, beam search fails to find these global best model scores in most cases, even with a very large beam size of 100. For more than 50{\%} of the sentences, the model in fact assigns its global best score to the empty translation, revealing a massive failure of neural models in properly accounting for adequacy. We show by constraining search with a minimum translation length that at the root of the problem of empty translations lies an inherent bias towards shorter translations. We conclude that vanilla NMT in its current form requires just the right amount of beam search errors, which, from a modelling perspective, is a highly unsatisfactory conclusion indeed, as the model often prefers an empty translation.
Understanding time is crucial for understanding events expressed in natural language. Because people rarely say the obvious, it is often necessary to have commonsense knowledge about various temporal aspects of events, such as duration, frequency, and temporal order. However, this important problem has so far received limited attention. This paper systematically studies this temporal commonsense problem. Specifically, we define five classes of temporal commonsense, and use crowdsourcing to develop a new dataset, MCTACO, that serves as a test set for this task. We find that the best current methods used on MCTACO are still far behind human performance, by about 20{\%}, and discuss several directions for improvement. We hope that the new dataset and our study here can foster more future research on this topic.
Standard accuracy metrics indicate that modern reading comprehension systems have achieved strong performance in many question answering datasets. However, the extent these systems truly understand language remains unknown, and existing systems are not good at distinguishing distractor sentences which look related but do not answer the question. To address this problem, we propose QAInfomax as a regularizer in reading comprehension systems by maximizing mutual information among passages, a question, and its answer. QAInfomax helps regularize the model to not simply learn the superficial correlation for answering the questions. The experiments show that our proposed QAInfomax achieves the state-of-the-art performance on the benchmark Adversarial-SQuAD dataset.
Multi-hop knowledge graph (KG) reasoning is an effective and explainable method for predicting the target entity via reasoning paths in query answering (QA) task. Most previous methods assume that every relation in KGs has enough triples for training, regardless of those few-shot relations which cannot provide sufficient triples for training robust reasoning models. In fact, the performance of existing multi-hop reasoning methods drops significantly on few-shot relations. In this paper, we propose a meta-based multi-hop reasoning method (Meta-KGR), which adopts meta-learning to learn effective meta parameters from high-frequency relations that could quickly adapt to few-shot relations. We evaluate Meta-KGR on two public datasets sampled from Freebase and NELL, and the experimental results show that Meta-KGR outperforms state-of-the-art methods in few-shot scenarios. In the future, our codes and datasets will also be available to provide more details.
Recent studies have significantly improved the state-of-the-art on common-sense reasoning (CSR) benchmarks like the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) and SWAG. The question we ask in this paper is whether improved performance on these benchmarks represents genuine progress towards common-sense-enabled systems. We make case studies of both benchmarks and design protocols that clarify and qualify the results of previous work by analyzing threats to the validity of previous experimental designs. Our protocols account for several properties prevalent in common-sense benchmarks including size limitations, structural regularities, and variable instance difficulty.
In this paper, we focus on the task of generating a pun sentence given a pair of word senses. A major challenge for pun generation is the lack of large-scale pun corpus to guide supervised learning. To remedy this, we propose an adversarial generative network for pun generation (Pun-GAN). It consists of a generator to produce pun sentences, and a discriminator to distinguish between the generated pun sentences and the real sentences with specific word senses. The output of the discriminator is then used as a reward to train the generator via reinforcement learning, encouraging it to produce pun sentences which can support two word senses simultaneously. Experiments show that the proposed Pun-GAN can generate sentences that are more ambiguous and diverse in both automatic and human evaluation.
This paper explores the task of answer-aware questions generation. Based on the attention-based pointer generator model, we propose to incorporate an auxiliary task of language modeling to help question generation in a hierarchical multi-task learning structure. Our joint-learning model enables the encoder to learn a better representation of the input sequence, which will guide the decoder to generate more coherent and fluent questions. On both SQuAD and MARCO datasets, our multi-task learning model boosts the performance, achieving state-of-the-art results. Moreover, human evaluation further proves the high quality of our generated questions.
Autoregressive state transitions, where predictions are conditioned on past predictions, are the predominant choice for both deterministic and stochastic sequential models. However, autoregressive feedback exposes the evolution of the hidden state trajectory to potential biases from well-known train-test discrepancies. In this paper, we combine a latent state space model with a CRF observation model. We argue that such autoregressive observation models form an interesting middle ground that expresses local correlations on the word level but keeps the state evolution non-autoregressive. On unconditional sentence generation we show performance improvements compared to RNN and GAN baselines while avoiding some prototypical failure modes of autoregressive models.
We present a systematic study of biases in natural language generation (NLG) by analyzing text generated from prompts that contain mentions of different demographic groups. In this work, we introduce the notion of the regard towards a demographic, use the varying levels of regard towards different demographics as a defining metric for bias in NLG, and analyze the extent to which sentiment scores are a relevant proxy metric for regard. To this end, we collect strategically-generated text from language models and manually annotate the text with both sentiment and regard scores. Additionally, we build an automatic regard classifier through transfer learning, so that we can analyze biases in unseen text. Together, these methods reveal the extent of the biased nature of language model generations. Our analysis provides a study of biases in NLG, bias metrics and correlated human judgments, and empirical evidence on the usefulness of our annotated dataset.
While neural networks produce state-of-the-art performance in many NLP tasks, they generally learn from lexical information, which may transfer poorly between domains. Here, we investigate the importance that a model assigns to various aspects of data while learning and making predictions, specifically, in a recognizing textual entailment (RTE) task. By inspecting the attention weights assigned by the model, we confirm that most of the weights are assigned to noun phrases. To mitigate this dependence on lexicalized information, we experiment with two strategies of masking. First, we replace named entities with their corresponding semantic tags along with a unique identifier to indicate lexical overlap between claim and evidence. Second, we similarly replace other word classes in the sentence (nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs) with their super sense tags (Ciaramita and Johnson, 2003). Our results show that, while performance on the in-domain dataset remains on par with that of the model trained on fully lexicalized data, it improves considerably when tested out of domain. For example, the performance of a state-of-the-art RTE model trained on the masked Fake News Challenge (Pomerleau and Rao, 2017) data and evaluated on Fact Extraction and Verification (Thorne et al., 2018) data improved by over 10{\%} in accuracy score compared to the fully lexicalized model.
Fact verification requires validating a claim in the context of evidence. We show, however, that in the popular FEVER dataset this might not necessarily be the case. Claim-only classifiers perform competitively with top evidence-aware models. In this paper, we investigate the cause of this phenomenon, identifying strong cues for predicting labels solely based on the claim, without considering any evidence. We create an evaluation set that avoids those idiosyncrasies. The performance of FEVER-trained models significantly drops when evaluated on this test set. Therefore, we introduce a regularization method which alleviates the effect of bias in the training data, obtaining improvements on the newly created test set. This work is a step towards a more sound evaluation of reasoning capabilities in fact verification models.
Aspect-level sentiment classification, which is a fine-grained sentiment analysis task, has received lots of attention these years. There is a phenomenon that people express both positive and negative sentiments towards an aspect at the same time. Such opinions with conflicting sentiments, however, are ignored by existing studies, which design models based on the absence of them. We argue that the exclusion of conflict opinions is problematic, for the reason that it represents an important style of human thinking {--} dialectic thinking. If a real-world sentiment classification system ignores the existence of conflict opinions when it is designed, it will incorrectly mixed conflict opinions into other sentiment polarity categories in action. Existing models have problems when recognizing conflicting opinions, such as data sparsity. In this paper, we propose a multi-label classification model with dual attention mechanism to address these problems.
Deep neural network models such as long short-term memory (LSTM) and tree-LSTM have been proven to be effective for sentiment analysis. However, sequential LSTM is a bias model wherein the words in the tail of a sentence are more heavily emphasized than those in the header for building sentence representations. Even tree-LSTM, with useful structural information, could not avoid the bias problem because the root node will be dominant and the nodes in the bottom of the parse tree will be less emphasized even though they may contain salient information. To overcome the bias problem, this study proposes a capsule tree-LSTM model, introducing a dynamic routing algorithm as an aggregation layer to build sentence representation by assigning different weights to nodes according to their contributions to prediction. Experiments on Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SST) for sentiment classification and EmoBank for regression show that the proposed method improved the performance of tree-LSTM and other neural network models. In addition, the deeper the tree structure, the bigger the improvement.
In this paper, we provide a simple and effective baseline for classifying both patents and papers to the well-established Cooperative Patent Classification (CPC). We propose a label-informative classifier based on the Wide {\&} Deep structure, where the Wide part encodes string-level similarities between texts and labels, and the Deep part captures semantic-level similarities via non-linear transformations. Our model trains on millions of patents, and transfers to papers by developing distant-supervised training set and domain-specific features. Extensive experiments show that our model achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art model used in industry on both patents and papers. The output of this work should facilitate the searching, granting and filing of innovative ideas for patent examiners, attorneys and researchers.
Recently, researches have explored the graph neural network (GNN) techniques on text classification, since GNN does well in handling complex structures and preserving global information. However, previous methods based on GNN are mainly faced with the practical problems of fixed corpus level graph structure which don{'}t support online testing and high memory consumption. To tackle the problems, we propose a new GNN based model that builds graphs for each input text with global parameters sharing instead of a single graph for the whole corpus. This method removes the burden of dependence between an individual text and entire corpus which support online testing, but still preserve global information. Besides, we build graphs by much smaller windows in the text, which not only extract more local features but also significantly reduce the edge numbers as well as memory consumption. Experiments show that our model outperforms existing models on several text classification datasets even with consuming less memory.
Applications such as textual entailment, plagiarism detection or document clustering rely on the notion of semantic similarity, and are usually approached with dimension reduction techniques like LDA or with embedding-based neural approaches. We present a scenario where semantic similarity is not enough, and we devise a neural approach to learn semantic relatedness. The scenario is text spotting in the wild, where a text in an image (e.g. street sign, advertisement or bus destination) must be identified and recognized. Our goal is to improve the performance of vision systems by leveraging semantic information. Our rationale is that the text to be spotted is often related to the image context in which it appears (word pairs such as Delta-airplane, or quarters-parking are not similar, but are clearly related). We show how learning a word-to-word or word-to-sentence relatedness score can improve the performance of text spotting systems up to 2.9 points, outperforming other measures in a benchmark dataset.
We propose a novel and simple method for semi-supervised text classification. The method stems from the hypothesis that a classifier with pretrained word embeddings always outperforms the same classifier with randomly initialized word embeddings, as empirically observed in NLP tasks. Our method first builds two sets of classifiers as a form of model ensemble, and then initializes their word embeddings differently: one using random, the other using pretrained word embeddings. We focus on different predictions between the two classifiers on unlabeled data while following the self-training framework. We also use early-stopping in meta-epoch to improve the performance of our method. Our method, Delta-training, outperforms the self-training and the co-training framework in 4 different text classification datasets, showing robustness against error accumulation.
We present 1) a work in progress method to visually segment key regions of scientific articles using an object detection technique augmented with contextual features, and 2) a novel dataset of region-labeled articles. A continuing challenge in scientific literature mining is the difficulty of consistently extracting high-quality text from formatted PDFs. To address this, we adapt the object-detection technique Faster R-CNN for document layout detection, incorporating contextual information that leverages the inherently localized nature of article contents to improve the region detection performance. Due to the limited availability of high-quality region-labels for scientific articles, we also contribute a novel dataset of region annotations, the first version of which covers 9 region classes and 822 article pages. Initial experimental results demonstrate a 23.9{\%} absolute improvement in mean average precision over the baseline model by incorporating contextual features, and a processing speed 14x faster than a text-based technique. Ongoing work on further improvements is also discussed.
Probabilistic topic models such as latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) are popularly used with Bayesian inference methods such as Gibbs sampling to learn posterior distributions over topic model parameters. We derive a novel measure of LDA topic quality using the variability of the posterior distributions. Compared to several existing baselines for automatic topic evaluation, the proposed metric achieves state-of-the-art correlations with human judgments of topic quality in experiments on three corpora. We additionally demonstrate that topic quality estimation can be further improved using a supervised estimator that combines multiple metrics.
In recent years, advances in neural variational inference have achieved many successes in text processing. Examples include neural topic models which are typically built upon variational autoencoder (VAE) with an objective of minimising the error of reconstructing original documents based on the learned latent topic vectors. However, minimising reconstruction errors does not necessarily lead to high quality topics. In this paper, we borrow the idea of reinforcement learning and incorporate topic coherence measures as reward signals to guide the learning of a VAE-based topic model. Furthermore, our proposed model is able to automatically separating background words dynamically from topic words, thus eliminating the pre-processing step of filtering infrequent and/or top frequent words, typically required for learning traditional topic models. Experimental results on the 20 Newsgroups and the NIPS datasets show superior performance both on perplexity and topic coherence measure compared to state-of-the-art neural topic models.
Text retrieval systems often return large sets of documents, particularly when applied to large collections. Stopping criteria can reduce the number of these documents that need to be manually evaluated for relevance by predicting when a suitable level of recall has been achieved. In this work, a novel method for determining a stopping criterion is proposed that models the rate at which relevant documents occur using a Poisson process. This method allows a user to specify both a minimum desired level of recall to achieve and a desired probability of having achieved it. We evaluate our method on a public dataset and compare it with previous techniques for determining stopping criteria.
This paper applies BERT to ad hoc document retrieval on news articles, which requires addressing two challenges: relevance judgments in existing test collections are typically provided only at the document level, and documents often exceed the length that BERT was designed to handle. Our solution is to aggregate sentence-level evidence to rank documents. Furthermore, we are able to leverage passage-level relevance judgments fortuitously available in other domains to fine-tune BERT models that are able to capture cross-domain notions of relevance, and can be directly used for ranking news articles. Our simple neural ranking models achieve state-of-the-art effectiveness on three standard test collections.
When performing cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) for lower-resourced languages, a common approach is to retrieve over the output of machine translation (MT). However, there is no established guidance on how to optimize the resulting MT-IR system. In this paper, we examine the relationship between the performance of MT systems and both neural and term frequency-based IR models to identify how CLIR performance can be best predicted from MT quality. We explore performance at varying amounts of MT training data, byte pair encoding (BPE) merge operations, and across two IR collections and retrieval models. We find that the choice of IR collection can substantially affect the predictive power of MT tuning decisions and evaluation, potentially introducing dissociations between MT-only and overall CLIR performance.
A notable property of word embeddings is that word relationships can exist as linear substructures in the embedding space. For example, {`}gender{'} corresponds to v{\_}woman - v{\_}man and v{\_}queen - v{\_}king. This, in turn, allows word analogies to be solved arithmetically: v{\_}king - v{\_}man + v{\_}woman = v{\_}queen. This property is notable because it suggests that models trained on word embeddings can easily learn such relationships as geometric translations. However, there is no evidence that models exclusively represent relationships in this manner. We document an alternative way in which downstream models might learn these relationships: orthogonal and linear transformations. For example, given a translation vector for {`}gender{'}, we can find an orthogonal matrix R, representing a rotation and reflection, such that R(v{\_}king) = v{\_}queen and R(v{\_}man) = v{\_}woman. Analogical reasoning using orthogonal transformations is almost as accurate as using vector arithmetic; using linear transformations is more accurate than both. Our findings suggest that these transformations can be as good a representation of word relationships as translation vectors.
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) aims to find the exact sense of an ambiguous word in a particular context. Traditional supervised methods rarely take into consideration the lexical resources like WordNet, which are widely utilized in knowledge-based methods. Recent studies have shown the effectiveness of incorporating gloss (sense definition) into neural networks for WSD. However, compared with traditional word expert supervised methods, they have not achieved much improvement. In this paper, we focus on how to better leverage gloss knowledge in a supervised neural WSD system. We construct context-gloss pairs and propose three BERT based models for WSD. We fine-tune the pre-trained BERT model and achieve new state-of-the-art results on WSD task.
One key component in text-to-SQL is to predict the comparison relations between columns and their values. To the best of our knowledge, no existing models explicitly introduce external common knowledge to address this problem, thus their capabilities of predicting comparison relations are limited beyond training data. In this paper, we propose to leverage adjective-noun phrasing knowledge mined from the web to predict the comparison relations in text-to-SQL. Experimental results on both the original and the re-split Spider dataset show that our approach achieves significant improvement over state-of-the-art methods on comparison relation prediction.
Definition modeling includes acquiring word embeddings from dictionary definitions and generating definitions of words. While the meanings of defining words are important in dictionary definitions, it is crucial to capture the lexical semantic relations between defined words and defining words. However, thus far, the utilization of such relations has not been explored for definition modeling. In this paper, we propose definition modeling methods that use lexical semantic relations. To utilize implicit semantic relations in definitions, we use unsupervisedly obtained pattern-based word-pair embeddings that represent semantic relations of word pairs. Experimental results indicate that our methods improve the performance in learning embeddings from definitions, as well as definition generation.
We propose a simple yet effective approach for improving Korean word representations using additional linguistic annotation (i.e. Hanja). We employ cross-lingual transfer learning in training word representations by leveraging the fact that Hanja is closely related to Chinese. We evaluate the intrinsic quality of representations learned through our approach using the word analogy and similarity tests. In addition, we demonstrate their effectiveness on several downstream tasks, including a novel Korean news headline generation task.
Current research in knowledge-based Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) indicates that performances depend heavily on the Lexical Knowledge Base (LKB) employed. This paper introduces SyntagNet, a novel resource consisting of manually disambiguated lexical-semantic combinations. By capturing sense distinctions evoked by syntagmatic relations, SyntagNet enables knowledge-based WSD systems to establish a new state of the art which challenges the hitherto unrivaled performances attained by supervised approaches. To the best of our knowledge, SyntagNet is the first large-scale manually-curated resource of this kind made available to the community (at http://syntagnet.org).
In countries that speak multiple main languages, mixing up different languages within a conversation is commonly called code-switching. Previous works addressing this challenge mainly focused on word-level aspects such as word embeddings. However, in many cases, languages share common subwords, especially for closely related languages, but also for languages that are seemingly irrelevant. Therefore, we propose Hierarchical Meta-Embeddings (HME) that learn to combine multiple monolingual word-level and subword-level embeddings to create language-agnostic lexical representations. On the task of Named Entity Recognition for English-Spanish code-switching data, our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance in the multilingual settings. We also show that, in cross-lingual settings, our model not only leverages closely related languages, but also learns from languages with different roots. Finally, we show that combining different subunits are crucial for capturing code-switching entities.
In this paper, we develop a novel Sparse Self-Attention Fine-tuning model (referred as SSAF) which integrates sparsity into self-attention mechanism to enhance the fine-tuning performance of BERT. In particular, sparsity is introduced into the self-attention by replacing softmax function with a controllable sparse transformation when fine-tuning with BERT. It enables us to learn a structurally sparse attention distribution, which leads to a more interpretable representation for the whole input. The proposed model is evaluated on sentiment analysis, question answering, and natural language inference tasks. The extensive experimental results across multiple datasets demonstrate its effectiveness and superiority to the baseline methods.
In low-resource settings, the performance of supervised labeling models can be improved with automatically annotated or distantly supervised data, which is cheap to create but often noisy. Previous works have shown that significant improvements can be reached by injecting information about the confusion between clean and noisy labels in this additional training data into the classifier training. However, for noise estimation, these approaches either do not take the input features (in our case word embeddings) into account, or they need to learn the noise modeling from scratch which can be difficult in a low-resource setting. We propose to cluster the training data using the input features and then compute different confusion matrices for each cluster. To the best of our knowledge, our approach is the first to leverage feature-dependent noise modeling with pre-initialized confusion matrices. We evaluate on low-resource named entity recognition settings in several languages, showing that our methods improve upon other confusion-matrix based methods by up to 9{\%}.
In this paper we present a novel approach to simultaneously representing multiple languages in a common space. Procrustes Analysis (PA) is commonly used to find the optimal orthogonal word mapping in the bilingual case. The proposed Multi Pairwise Procrustes Analysis (MPPA) is a natural extension of the PA algorithm to multilingual word mapping. Unlike previous PA extensions that require a k-way dictionary, this approach requires only pairwise bilingual dictionaries that are much easier to construct.
Out-of-domain (OOD) detection for low-resource text classification is a realistic but understudied task. The goal is to detect the OOD cases with limited in-domain (ID) training data, since in machine learning applications we observe that training data is often insufficient. In this work, we propose an \textit{OOD-resistant Prototypical Network} to tackle this zero-shot OOD detection and few-shot ID classification task. Evaluations on real-world datasets show that the proposed solution outperforms state-of-the-art methods in zero-shot OOD detection task, while maintaining a competitive performance on ID classification task.
Formality text style transfer plays an important role in various NLP applications, such as non-native speaker assistants and child education. Early studies normalize informal sentences with rules, before statistical and neural models become a prevailing method in the field. While a rule-based system is still a common preprocessing step for formality style transfer in the neural era, it could introduce noise if we use the rules in a naive way such as data preprocessing. To mitigate this problem, we study how to harness rules into a state-of-the-art neural network that is typically pretrained on massive corpora. We propose three fine-tuning methods in this paper and achieve a new state-of-the-art on benchmark datasets
The objective of non-parallel text style transfer, or controllable text generation, is to alter specific attributes (e.g. sentiment, mood, tense, politeness, etc) of a given text while preserving its remaining attributes and content. Generative adversarial network (GAN) is a popular model to ensure the transferred sentences are realistic and have the desired target styles. However, training GAN often suffers from mode collapse problem, which causes that the transferred text is little related to the original text. In this paper, we propose a new GAN model with a word-level conditional architecture and a two-phase training procedure. By using a style-related condition architecture before generating a word, our model is able to maintain style-unrelated words while changing the others. By separating the training procedure into reconstruction and transfer phases, our model is able to learn a proper text generation process, which further improves the content preservation. We test our model on polarity sentiment transfer and multiple-attribute transfer tasks. The empirical results show that our model achieves comparable evaluation scores in both transfer accuracy and fluency but significantly outperforms other state-of-the-art models in content compatibility on three real-world datasets.
In this paper, we study differentiable neural architecture search (NAS) methods for natural language processing. In particular, we improve differentiable architecture search by removing the softmax-local constraint. Also, we apply differentiable NAS to named entity recognition (NER). It is the first time that differentiable NAS methods are adopted in NLP tasks other than language modeling. On both the PTB language modeling and CoNLL-2003 English NER data, our method outperforms strong baselines. It achieves a new state-of-the-art on the NER task.
Bilinear models such as DistMult and ComplEx are effective methods for knowledge graph (KG) completion. However, they require large batch sizes, which becomes a performance bottleneck when training on large scale datasets due to memory constraints. In this paper we use occurrences of entity-relation pairs in the dataset to construct a joint learning model and to increase the quality of sampled negatives during training. We show on three standard datasets that when these two techniques are combined, they give a significant improvement in performance, especially when the batch size and the number of generated negative examples are low relative to the size of the dataset. We then apply our techniques to a dataset containing 2 million entities and demonstrate that our model outperforms the baseline by 2.8{\%} absolute on hits@1.
In this paper, we present a fast and reliable method based on PCA to select the number of dimensions for word embeddings. First, we train one embedding with a generous upper bound (e.g. 1,000) of dimensions. Then we transform the embeddings using PCA and incrementally remove the lesser dimensions one at a time while recording the embeddings{'} performance on language tasks. Lastly, we select the number of dimensions, balancing model size and accuracy. Experiments using various datasets and language tasks demonstrate that we are able to train about 10 times fewer sets of embeddings while retaining optimal performance. Researchers interested in training the best-performing embeddings for downstream tasks, such as sentiment analysis, question answering and hypernym extraction, as well as those interested in embedding compression should find the method helpful.
When trained effectively, the Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is both a powerful language model and an effective representation learning framework. In practice, however, VAEs are trained with the evidence lower bound (ELBO) as a surrogate objective to the intractable marginal data likelihood. This approach to training yields unstable results, frequently leading to a disastrous local optimum known as posterior collapse. In this paper, we investigate a simple fix for posterior collapse which yields surprisingly effective results. The combination of two known heuristics, previously considered only in isolation, substantially improves held-out likelihood, reconstruction, and latent representation learning when compared with previous state-of-the-art methods. More interestingly, while our experiments demonstrate superiority on these principle evaluations, our method obtains a worse ELBO. We use these results to argue that the typical surrogate objective for VAEs may not be sufficient or necessarily appropriate for balancing the goals of representation learning and data distribution modeling.
Obtaining large-scale annotated data for NLP tasks in the scientific domain is challenging and expensive. We release SciBERT, a pretrained language model based on BERT (Devlin et. al., 2018) to address the lack of high-quality, large-scale labeled scientific data. SciBERT leverages unsupervised pretraining on a large multi-domain corpus of scientific publications to improve performance on downstream scientific NLP tasks. We evaluate on a suite of tasks including sequence tagging, sentence classification and dependency parsing, with datasets from a variety of scientific domains. We demonstrate statistically significant improvements over BERT and achieve new state-of-the-art results on several of these tasks. The code and pretrained models are available at https://github.com/allenai/scibert/.
Much previous work has been done in attempting to identify humor in text. In this paper we extend that capability by proposing a new task: assessing whether or not a joke is humorous. We present a novel way of approaching this problem by building a model that learns to identify humorous jokes based on ratings gleaned from Reddit pages, consisting of almost 16,000 labeled instances. Using these ratings to determine the level of humor, we then employ a Transformer architecture for its advantages in learning from sentence context. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach and show results that are comparable to human performance. We further demonstrate our model{'}s increased capabilities on humor identification problems, such as the previously created datasets for short jokes and puns. These experiments show that this method outperforms all previous work done on these tasks, with an F-measure of 93.1{\%} for the Puns dataset and 98.6{\%} on the Short Jokes dataset.
One way to reduce network traffic in multi-node data-parallel stochastic gradient descent is to only exchange the largest gradients. However, doing so damages the gradient and degrades the model{'}s performance. Transformer models degrade dramatically while the impact on RNNs is smaller. We restore gradient quality by combining the compressed global gradient with the node{'}s locally computed uncompressed gradient. Neural machine translation experiments show that Transformer convergence is restored while RNNs converge faster. With our method, training on 4 nodes converges up to 1.5x as fast as with uncompressed gradients and scales 3.5x relative to single-node training.
We propose a practical scheme to train a single multilingual sequence labeling model that yields state of the art results and is small and fast enough to run on a single CPU. Starting from a public multilingual BERT checkpoint, our final model is 6x smaller and 27x faster, and has higher accuracy than a state-of-the-art multilingual baseline. We show that our model especially outperforms on low-resource languages, and works on codemixed input text without being explicitly trained on codemixed examples. We showcase the effectiveness of our method by reporting on part-of-speech tagging and morphological prediction on 70 treebanks and 48 languages.
Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) converts user utterances into structured semantic representations. Data sparsity is one of the main obstacles of SLU due to the high cost of human annotation, especially when domain changes or a new domain comes. In this work, we propose a data augmentation method with atomic templates for SLU, which involves minimum human efforts. The atomic templates produce exemplars for fine-grained constituents of semantic representations. We propose an encoder-decoder model to generate the whole utterance from atomic exemplars. Moreover, the generator could be transferred from source domains to help a new domain which has little data. Experimental results show that our method achieves significant improvements on DSTC 2{\&}3 dataset which is a domain adaptation setting of SLU.
We present PaLM, a hybrid parser and neural language model. Building on an RNN language model, PaLM adds an attention layer over text spans in the left context. An unsupervised constituency parser can be derived from its attention weights, using a greedy decoding algorithm. We evaluate PaLM on language modeling, and empirically show that it outperforms strong baselines. If syntactic annotations are available, the attention component can be trained in a supervised manner, providing syntactically-informed representations of the context, and further improving language modeling performance.
The task of semantic parsing is highly useful for dialogue and question answering systems. Many datasets have been proposed to map natural language text into SQL, among which the recent Spider dataset provides cross-domain samples with multiple tables and complex queries. We build a Spider dataset for Chinese, which is currently a low-resource language in this task area. Interesting research questions arise from the uniqueness of the language, which requires word segmentation, and also from the fact that SQL keywords and columns of DB tables are typically written in English. We compare character- and word-based encoders for a semantic parser, and different embedding schemes. Results show that word-based semantic parser is subject to segmentation errors and cross-lingual word embeddings are useful for text-to-SQL.
State-of-the-art semantic parsers rely on auto-regressive decoding, emitting one symbol at a time. When tested against complex databases that are unobserved at training time (zero-shot), the parser often struggles to select the correct set of database constants in the new database, due to the local nature of decoding. {\%}since their decisions are based on weak, local information only. In this work, we propose a semantic parser that globally reasons about the structure of the output query to make a more contextually-informed selection of database constants. We use message-passing through a graph neural network to softly select a subset of database constants for the output query, conditioned on the question. Moreover, we train a model to rank queries based on the global alignment of database constants to question words. We apply our techniques to the current state-of-the-art model for Spider, a zero-shot semantic parsing dataset with complex databases, increasing accuracy from 39.4{\%} to 47.4{\%}.
In transductive learning, an unlabeled test set is used for model training. Although this setting deviates from the common assumption of a completely unseen test set, it is applicable in many real-world scenarios, wherein the texts to be processed are known in advance. However, despite its practical advantages, transductive learning is underexplored in natural language processing. Here we conduct an empirical study of transductive learning for neural models and demonstrate its utility in syntactic and semantic tasks. Specifically, we fine-tune language models (LMs) on an unlabeled test set to obtain test-set-specific word representations. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that despite its simplicity, transductive LM fine-tuning consistently improves state-of-the-art neural models in in-domain and out-of-domain settings.
Vector averaging remains one of the most popular sentence embedding methods in spite of its obvious disregard for syntactic structure. While more complex sequential or convolutional networks potentially yield superior classification performance, the improvements in classification accuracy are typically mediocre compared to the simple vector averaging. As an efficient alternative, we propose the use of discrete cosine transform (DCT) to compress word sequences in an order-preserving manner. The lower order DCT coefficients represent the overall feature patterns in sentences, which results in suitable embeddings for tasks that could benefit from syntactic features. Our results in semantic probing tasks demonstrate that DCT embeddings indeed preserve more syntactic information compared with vector averaging. With practically equivalent complexity, the model yields better overall performance in downstream classification tasks that correlate with syntactic features, which illustrates the capacity of DCT to preserve word order information.
Most existing work on adversarial data generation focuses on English. For example, PAWS (Paraphrase Adversaries from Word Scrambling) consists of challenging English paraphrase identification pairs from Wikipedia and Quora. We remedy this gap with PAWS-X, a new dataset of 23,659 human translated PAWS evaluation pairs in six typologically distinct languages: French, Spanish, German, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. We provide baseline numbers for three models with different capacity to capture non-local context and sentence structure, and using different multilingual training and evaluation regimes. Multilingual BERT fine-tuned on PAWS English plus machine-translated data performs the best, with a range of 83.1-90.8 accuracy across the non-English languages and an average accuracy gain of 23{\%} over the next best model. PAWS-X shows the effectiveness of deep, multilingual pre-training while also leaving considerable headroom as a new challenge to drive multilingual research that better captures structure and contextual information.
As a step toward better document-level understanding, we explore classification of a sequence of sentences into their corresponding categories, a task that requires understanding sentences in context of the document. Recent successful models for this task have used hierarchical models to contextualize sentence representations, and Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) to incorporate dependencies between subsequent labels. In this work, we show that pretrained language models, BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) in particular, can be used for this task to capture contextual dependencies without the need for hierarchical encoding nor a CRF. Specifically, we construct a joint sentence representation that allows BERT Transformer layers to directly utilize contextual information from all words in all sentences. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on four datasets, including a new dataset of structured scientific abstracts.
We describe a multi-agent communication framework for examining high-level linguistic phenomena at the community-level. We demonstrate that complex linguistic behavior observed in natural language can be reproduced in this simple setting: i) the outcome of contact between communities is a function of inter- and intra-group connectivity; ii) linguistic contact either converges to the majority protocol, or in balanced cases leads to novel creole languages of lower complexity; and iii) a linguistic continuum emerges where neighboring languages are more mutually intelligible than farther removed languages. We conclude that at least some of the intricate properties of language evolution need not depend on complex evolved linguistic capabilities, but can emerge from simple social exchanges between perceptually-enabled agents playing communication games.
Condescending language use is caustic; it can bring dialogues to an end and bifurcate communities. Thus, systems for condescension detection could have a large positive impact. A challenge here is that condescension is often impossible to detect from isolated utterances, as it depends on the discourse and social context. To address this, we present TalkDown, a new labeled dataset of condescending linguistic acts in context. We show that extending a language-only model with representations of the discourse improves performance, and we motivate techniques for dealing with the low rates of condescension overall. We also use our model to estimate condescension rates in various online communities and relate these differences to differing community norms.
A key challenge in topic-focused summarization is determining what information should be included in the summary, a problem known as content selection. In this work, we propose a new method for studying content selection in topic-focused summarization called the summary cloze task. The goal of the summary cloze task is to generate the next sentence of a summary conditioned on the beginning of the summary, a topic, and a reference document(s). The main challenge is deciding what information in the references is relevant to the topic and partial summary and should be included in the summary. Although the cloze task does not address all aspects of the traditional summarization problem, the more narrow scope of the task allows us to collect a large-scale datset of nearly 500k summary cloze instances from Wikipedia. We report experimental results on this new dataset using various extractive models and a two-step abstractive model that first extractively selects a small number of sentences and then abstractively summarizes them. Our results show that the topic and partial summary help the models identify relevant content, but the task remains a significant challenge.
Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) represents the latest incarnation of pretrained language models which have recently advanced a wide range of natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we showcase how BERT can be usefully applied in text summarization and propose a general framework for both extractive and abstractive models. We introduce a novel document-level encoder based on BERT which is able to express the semantics of a document and obtain representations for its sentences. Our extractive model is built on top of this encoder by stacking several inter-sentence Transformer layers. For abstractive summarization, we propose a new fine-tuning schedule which adopts different optimizers for the encoder and the decoder as a means of alleviating the mismatch between the two (the former is pretrained while the latter is not). We also demonstrate that a two-staged fine-tuning approach can further boost the quality of the generated summaries. Experiments on three datasets show that our model achieves state-of-the-art results across the board in both extractive and abstractive settings.
Under special circumstances, summaries should conform to a particular style with patterns, such as court judgments and abstracts in academic papers. To this end, the prototype document-summary pairs can be utilized to generate better summaries. There are two main challenges in this task: (1) the model needs to incorporate learned patterns from the prototype, but (2) should avoid copying contents other than the patternized words{---}such as irrelevant facts{---}into the generated summaries. To tackle these challenges, we design a model named Prototype Editing based Summary Generator (PESG). PESG first learns summary patterns and prototype facts by analyzing the correlation between a prototype document and its summary. Prototype facts are then utilized to help extract facts from the input document. Next, an editing generator generates new summary based on the summary pattern or extracted facts. Finally, to address the second challenge, a fact checker is used to estimate mutual information between the input document and generated summary, providing an additional signal for the generator. Extensive experiments conducted on a large-scale real-world text summarization dataset show that PESG achieves the state-of-the-art performance in terms of both automatic metrics and human evaluations.
The principle of the Information Bottleneck (Tishby et al., 1999) produces a summary of information X optimized to predict some other relevant information Y. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to unsupervised sentence summarization by mapping the Information Bottleneck principle to a conditional language modelling objective: given a sentence, our approach seeks a compressed sentence that can best predict the next sentence. Our iterative algorithm under the Information Bottleneck objective searches gradually shorter subsequences of the given sentence while maximizing the probability of the next sentence conditioned on the summary. Using only pretrained language models with no direct supervision, our approach can efficiently perform extractive sentence summarization over a large corpus. Building on our unsupervised extractive summarization, we also present a new approach to self-supervised abstractive summarization, where a transformer-based language model is trained on the output summaries of our unsupervised method. Empirical results demonstrate that our extractive method outperforms other unsupervised models on multiple automatic metrics. In addition, we find that our self-supervised abstractive model outperforms unsupervised baselines (including our own) by human evaluation along multiple attributes.
Pointer Generators have been the de facto standard for modern summarization systems. However, this architecture faces two major drawbacks: Firstly, the pointer is limited to copying the exact words while ignoring possible inflections or abstractions, which restricts its power of capturing richer latent alignment. Secondly, the copy mechanism results in a strong bias towards extractive generations, where most sentences are produced by simply copying from the source text. In this paper, we address these problems by allowing the model to {``}edit{''} pointed tokens instead of always hard copying them. The editing is performed by transforming the pointed word vector into a target space with a learned relation embedding. On three large-scale summarization dataset, we show the model is able to (1) capture more latent alignment relations than exact word matches, (2) improve word alignment accuracy, allowing for better model interpretation and controlling, (3) generate higher-quality summaries validated by both qualitative and quantitative evaluations and (4) bring more abstraction to the generated summaries.
Semantic parsing aims to map natural language utterances onto machine interpretable meaning representations, aka programs whose execution against a real-world environment produces a denotation. Weakly-supervised semantic parsers are trained on utterance-denotation pairs treating programs as latent. The task is challenging due to the large search space and spuriousness of programs which may execute to the correct answer but do not generalize to unseen examples. Our goal is to instill an inductive bias in the parser to help it distinguish between spurious and correct programs. We capitalize on the intuition that correct programs would likely respect certain structural constraints were they to be aligned to the question (e.g., program fragments are unlikely to align to overlapping text spans) and propose to model alignments as structured latent variables. In order to make the latent-alignment framework tractable, we decompose the parsing task into (1) predicting a partial {``}abstract program{''} and (2) refining it while modeling structured alignments with differential dynamic programming. We obtain state-of-the-art performance on the WikiTableQuestions and WikiSQL datasets. When compared to a standard attention baseline, we observe that the proposed structured-alignment mechanism is highly beneficial.
We unify different broad-coverage semantic parsing tasks into a transduction parsing paradigm, and propose an attention-based neural transducer that incrementally builds meaning representation via a sequence of semantic relations. By leveraging multiple attention mechanisms, the neural transducer can be effectively trained without relying on a pre-trained aligner. Experiments separately conducted on three broad-coverage semantic parsing tasks {--} AMR, SDP and UCCA {--} demonstrate that our attention-based neural transducer improves the state of the art on both AMR and UCCA, and is competitive with the state of the art on SDP.
We introduce a novel scheme for parsing a piece of text into its Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR): Graph Spanning based Parsing (GSP). One novel characteristic of GSP is that it constructs a parse graph incrementally in a top-down fashion. Starting from the root, at each step, a new node and its connections to existing nodes will be jointly predicted. The output graph spans the nodes by the distance to the root, following the intuition of first grasping the main ideas then digging into more details. The \textit{core semantic first} principle emphasizes capturing the main ideas of a sentence, which is of great interest. We evaluate our model on the latest AMR sembank and achieve the state-of-the-art performance in the sense that no heuristic graph re-categorization is adopted. More importantly, the experiments show that our parser is especially good at obtaining the core semantics.
A major hurdle on the road to conversational interfaces is the difficulty in collecting data that maps language utterances to logical forms. One prominent approach for data collection has been to automatically generate pseudo-language paired with logical forms, and paraphrase the pseudo-language to natural language through crowdsourcing (Wang et al., 2015). However, this data collection procedure often leads to low performance on real data, due to a mismatch between the true distribution of examples and the distribution induced by the data collection procedure. In this paper, we thoroughly analyze two sources of mismatch in this process: the mismatch in logical form distribution and the mismatch in language distribution between the true and induced distributions. We quantify the effects of these mismatches, and propose a new data collection approach that mitigates them. Assuming access to unlabeled utterances from the true distribution, we combine crowdsourcing with a paraphrase model to detect correct logical forms for the unlabeled utterances. On two datasets, our method leads to 70.6 accuracy on average on the true distribution, compared to 51.3 in paraphrasing-based data collection.
Distantly-supervised relation extraction has proven to be effective to find relational facts from texts. However, the existing approaches treat labels as independent and meaningless one-hot vectors, which cause a loss of potential label information for selecting valid instances. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-layer attention-based model to improve relation extraction with joint label embedding. The model makes full use of both structural information from Knowledge Graphs and textual information from entity descriptions to learn label embeddings through gating integration while avoiding the imposed noise with an attention mechanism. Then the learned label embeddings are used as another atten- tion over the instances (whose embeddings are also enhanced with the entity descriptions) for improving relation extraction. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
The lack of word boundaries information has been seen as one of the main obstacles to develop a high performance Chinese named entity recognition (NER) system. Fortunately, the automatically constructed lexicon contains rich word boundaries information and word semantic information. However, integrating lexical knowledge in Chinese NER tasks still faces challenges when it comes to self-matched lexical words as well as the nearest contextual lexical words. We present a Collaborative Graph Network to solve these challenges. Experiments on various datasets show that our model not only outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) results, but also achieves a speed that is six to fifteen times faster than that of the SOTA model.
In recent years there is a surge of interest in applying distant supervision (DS) to automatically generate training data for relation extraction (RE). In this paper, we study the problem what limits the performance of DS-trained neural models, conduct thorough analyses, and identify a factor that can influence the performance greatly, shifted label distribution. Specifically, we found this problem commonly exists in real-world DS datasets, and without special handing, typical DS-RE models cannot automatically adapt to this shift, thus achieving deteriorated performance. To further validate our intuition, we develop a simple yet effective adaptation method for DS-trained models, bias adjustment, which updates models learned over the source domain (i.e., DS training set) with a label distribution estimated on the target domain (i.e., test set). Experiments demonstrate that bias adjustment achieves consistent performance gains on DS-trained models, especially on neural models, with an up to 23{\%} relative F1 improvement, which verifies our assumptions. Our code and data can be found at https://github.com/INK-USC/shifted-label-distribution.
Many existing relation extraction (RE) models make decisions globally using integer linear programming (ILP). However, it is nontrivial to make use of integer linear programming as a blackbox solver for RE. Its cost of time and memory may become unacceptable with the increase of data scale, and redundant information needs to be encoded cautiously for ILP. In this paper, we propose an easy first approach for relation extraction with information redundancies, embedded in the results produced by local sentence level extractors, during which conflict decisions are resolved with domain and uniqueness constraints. Information redundancies are leveraged to support both easy first collective inference for easy decisions in the first stage and ILP for hard decisions in a subsequent stage. Experimental study shows that our approach improves the efficiency and accuracy of RE, and outperforms both ILP and neural network-based methods.
Dependency tree structures capture long-distance and syntactic relationships between words in a sentence. The syntactic relations (e.g., nominal subject, object) can potentially infer the existence of certain named entities. In addition, the performance of a named entity recognizer could benefit from the long-distance dependencies between the words in dependency trees. In this work, we propose a simple yet effective dependency-guided LSTM-CRF model to encode the complete dependency trees and capture the above properties for the task of named entity recognition (NER). The data statistics show strong correlations between the entity types and dependency relations. We conduct extensive experiments on several standard datasets and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model in improving NER and achieving state-of-the-art performance. Our analysis reveals that the significant improvements mainly result from the dependency relations and long-distance interactions provided by dependency trees.
Large training datasets are required to achieve competitive performance in most natural language tasks. The acquisition process for these datasets is labor intensive, expensive, and time consuming. This process is also prone to human errors. In this work, we show that cross-cultural differences can be harnessed for natural language text classification. We present a transfer-learning framework that leverages widely-available unaligned bilingual corpora for classification tasks, using no task-specific data. Our empirical evaluation on two tasks {--} formality classification and sarcasm detection {--} shows that the cross-cultural difference between German and American English, as manifested in product review text, can be applied to achieve good performance for formality classification, while the difference between Japanese and American English can be applied to achieve good performance for sarcasm detection {--} both without any task-specific labeled data.
Supervised learning models often perform poorly at low-shot tasks, i.e. tasks for which little labeled data is available for training. One prominent approach for improving low-shot learning is to use unsupervised pre-trained neural models. Another approach is to obtain richer supervision by collecting annotator rationales (explanations supporting label annotations). In this work, we combine these two approaches to improve low-shot text classification with two novel methods: a simple bag-of-words embedding approach; and a more complex context-aware method, based on the BERT model. In experiments with two English text classification datasets, we demonstrate substantial performance gains from combining pre-training with rationales. Furthermore, our investigation of a range of train-set sizes reveals that the simple bag-of-words approach is the clear top performer when there are only a few dozen training instances or less, while more complex models, such as BERT or CNN, require more training data to shine.
We propose a novel on-device sequence model for text classification using recurrent projections. Our model ProSeqo uses dynamic recurrent projections without the need to store or look up any pre-trained embeddings. This results in fast and compact neural networks that can perform on-device inference for complex short and long text classification tasks. We conducted exhaustive evaluation on multiple text classification tasks. Results show that ProSeqo outperformed state-of-the-art neural and on-device approaches for short text classification tasks such as dialog act and intent prediction. To the best of our knowledge, ProSeqo is the first on-device long text classification neural model. It achieved comparable results to previous neural approaches for news article, answers and product categorization, while preserving small memory footprint and maintaining high accuracy.
Text classification tends to struggle when data is deficient or when it needs to adapt to unseen classes. In such challenging scenarios, recent studies have used meta-learning to simulate the few-shot task, in which new queries are compared to a small support set at the sample-wise level. However, this sample-wise comparison may be severely disturbed by the various expressions in the same class. Therefore, we should be able to learn a general representation of each class in the support set and then compare it to new queries. In this paper, we propose a novel Induction Network to learn such a generalized class-wise representation, by innovatively leveraging the dynamic routing algorithm in meta-learning. In this way, we find the model is able to induce and generalize better. We evaluate the proposed model on a well-studied sentiment classification dataset (English) and a real-world dialogue intent classification dataset (Chinese). Experiment results show that on both datasets, the proposed model significantly outperforms the existing state-of-the-art approaches, proving the effectiveness of class-wise generalization in few-shot text classification.
Zero-shot text classification (0Shot-TC) is a challenging NLU problem to which little attention has been paid by the research community. 0Shot-TC aims to associate an appropriate label with a piece of text, irrespective of the text domain and the aspect (e.g., topic, emotion, event, etc.) described by the label. And there are only a few articles studying 0Shot-TC, all focusing only on topical categorization which, we argue, is just the tip of the iceberg in 0Shot-TC. In addition, the chaotic experiments in literature make no uniform comparison, which blurs the progress. This work benchmarks the 0Shot-TC problem by providing unified datasets, standardized evaluations, and state-of-the-art baselines. Our contributions include: i) The datasets we provide facilitate studying 0Shot-TC relative to conceptually different and diverse aspects: the {``}topic{''} aspect includes {``}sports{''} and {``}politics{''} as labels; the {``}emotion{''} aspect includes {``}joy{''} and {``}anger{''}; the {``}situation{''} aspect includes {``}medical assistance{''} and {``}water shortage{''}. ii) We extend the existing evaluation setup (label-partially-unseen) {--} given a dataset, train on some labels, test on all labels {--} to include a more challenging yet realistic evaluation label-fully-unseen 0Shot-TC (Chang et al., 2008), aiming at classifying text snippets without seeing task specific training data at all. iii) We unify the 0Shot-TC of diverse aspects within a textual entailment formulation and study it this way.
While neural models show remarkable accuracy on individual predictions, their internal beliefs can be inconsistent across examples. In this paper, we formalize such inconsistency as a generalization of prediction error. We propose a learning framework for constraining models using logic rules to regularize them away from inconsistency. Our framework can leverage both labeled and unlabeled examples and is directly compatible with off-the-shelf learning schemes without model redesign. We instantiate our framework on natural language inference, where experiments show that enforcing invariants stated in logic can help make the predictions of neural models both accurate and consistent.
This paper shows that standard assessment methodology for style transfer has several significant problems. First, the standard metrics for style accuracy and semantics preservation vary significantly on different re-runs. Therefore one has to report error margins for the obtained results. Second, starting with certain values of bilingual evaluation understudy (BLEU) between input and output and accuracy of the sentiment transfer the optimization of these two standard metrics diverge from the intuitive goal of the style transfer task. Finally, due to the nature of the task itself, there is a specific dependence between these two metrics that could be easily manipulated. Under these circumstances, we suggest taking BLEU between input and human-written reformulations into consideration for benchmarks. We also propose three new architectures that outperform state of the art in terms of this metric.
Deep latent variable models (LVM) such as variational auto-encoder (VAE) have recently played an important role in text generation. One key factor is the exploitation of smooth latent structures to guide the generation. However, the representation power of VAEs is limited due to two reasons: (1) the Gaussian assumption is often made on the variational posteriors; and meanwhile (2) a notorious {``}posterior collapse{''} issue occurs. In this paper, we advocate sample-based representations of variational distributions for natural language, leading to implicit latent features, which can provide flexible representation power compared with Gaussian-based posteriors. We further develop an LVM to directly match the aggregated posterior to the prior. It can be viewed as a natural extension of VAEs with a regularization of maximizing mutual information, mitigating the {``}posterior collapse{''} issue. We demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of our models in various text generation scenarios, including language modeling, unaligned style transfer, and dialog response generation. The source code to reproduce our experimental results is available on GitHub.
We conduct a large-scale, systematic study to evaluate the existing evaluation methods for natural language generation in the context of generating online product reviews. We compare human-based evaluators with a variety of automated evaluation procedures, including discriminative evaluators that measure how well machine-generated text can be distinguished from human-written text, as well as word overlap metrics that assess how similar the generated text compares to human-written references. We determine to what extent these different evaluators agree on the ranking of a dozen of state-of-the-art generators for online product reviews. We find that human evaluators do not correlate well with discriminative evaluators, leaving a bigger question of whether adversarial accuracy is the correct objective for natural language generation. In general, distinguishing machine-generated text is challenging even for human evaluators, and human decisions correlate better with lexical overlaps. We find lexical diversity an intriguing metric that is indicative of the assessments of different evaluators. A post-experiment survey of participants provides insights into how to evaluate and improve the quality of natural language generation systems.
BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) and RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) has set a new state-of-the-art performance on sentence-pair regression tasks like semantic textual similarity (STS). However, it requires that both sentences are fed into the network, which causes a massive computational overhead: Finding the most similar pair in a collection of 10,000 sentences requires about 50 million inference computations ({\textasciitilde}65 hours) with BERT. The construction of BERT makes it unsuitable for semantic similarity search as well as for unsupervised tasks like clustering. In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT (SBERT), a modification of the pretrained BERT network that use siamese and triplet network structures to derive semantically meaningful sentence embeddings that can be compared using cosine-similarity. This reduces the effort for finding the most similar pair from 65 hours with BERT / RoBERTa to about 5 seconds with SBERT, while maintaining the accuracy from BERT. We evaluate SBERT and SRoBERTa on common STS tasks and transfer learning tasks, where it outperforms other state-of-the-art sentence embeddings methods.
We consider a document classification problem where document labels are absent but only relevant keywords of a target class and unlabeled documents are given. Although heuristic methods based on pseudo-labeling have been considered, theoretical understanding of this problem has still been limited. Moreover, previous methods cannot easily incorporate well-developed techniques in supervised text classification. In this paper, we propose a theoretically guaranteed learning framework that is simple to implement and has flexible choices of models, e.g., linear models or neural networks. We demonstrate how to optimize the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) effectively and also discuss how to adjust it to optimize other well-known evaluation metrics such as the accuracy and F1-measure. Finally, we show the effectiveness of our framework using benchmark datasets.
This paper presents a new sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) pre-training method PoDA (Pre-training of Denoising Autoencoders), which learns representations suitable for text generation tasks. Unlike encoder-only (e.g., BERT) or decoder-only (e.g., OpenAI GPT) pre-training approaches, PoDA jointly pre-trains both the encoder and decoder by denoising the noise-corrupted text, and it also has the advantage of keeping the network architecture unchanged in the subsequent fine-tuning stage. Meanwhile, we design a hybrid model of Transformer and pointer-generator networks as the backbone architecture for PoDA. We conduct experiments on two text generation tasks: abstractive summarization, and grammatical error correction. Results on four datasets show that PoDA can improve model performance over strong baselines without using any task-specific techniques and significantly speed up convergence.
We introduce the dialog intent induction task and present a novel deep multi-view clustering approach to tackle the problem. Dialog intent induction aims at discovering user intents from user query utterances in human-human conversations such as dialogs between customer support agents and customers. Motivated by the intuition that a dialog intent is not only expressed in the user query utterance but also captured in the rest of the dialog, we split a conversation into two independent views and exploit multi-view clustering techniques for inducing the dialog intent. In par- ticular, we propose alternating-view k-means (AV-KMEANS) for joint multi-view represen- tation learning and clustering analysis. The key innovation is that the instance-view representations are updated iteratively by predicting the cluster assignment obtained from the alternative view, so that the multi-view representations of the instances lead to similar cluster assignments. Experiments on two public datasets show that AV-KMEANS can induce better dialog intent clusters than state-of-the-art unsupervised representation learning methods and standard multi-view clustering approaches.
Recently, kernelized locality sensitive hashcodes have been successfully employed as representations of natural language text, especially showing high relevance to biomedical relation extraction tasks. In this paper, we propose to optimize the hashcode representations in a nearly unsupervised manner, in which we only use data points, but not their class labels, for learning. The optimized hashcode representations are then fed to a supervised classifi er following the prior work. This nearly unsupervised approach allows fine-grained optimization of each hash function, which is particularly suitable for building hashcode representations generalizing from a training set to a test set. We empirically evaluate the proposed approach for biomedical relation extraction tasks, obtaining significant accuracy improvements w.r.t. state-of-the-art supervised and semi-supervised approaches.
While NLP systems become more pervasive, their accountability gains value as a focal point of effort. Epistemological opaqueness of nonlinear learning methods, such as deep learning models, can be a major drawback for their adoptions. In this paper, we discuss the application of Layerwise Relevance Propagation over a linguistically motivated neural architecture, the Kernel-based Deep Architecture, in order to trace back connections between linguistic properties of input instances and system decisions. Such connections then guide the construction of argumentations on network{'}s inferences, i.e., explanations based on real examples, semantically related to the input. We propose here a methodology to evaluate the transparency and coherence of analogy-based explanations modeling an audit stage for the system. Quantitative analysis on two semantic tasks, i.e., question classification and semantic role labeling, show that the explanatory capabilities (native in KDAs) are effective and they pave the way to more complex argumentation methods.
While broadly applicable to many natural language processing (NLP) tasks, variational autoencoders (VAEs) are hard to train due to the posterior collapse issue where the latent variable fails to encode the input data effectively. Various approaches have been proposed to alleviate this problem to improve the capability of the VAE. In this paper, we propose to introduce a mutual information (MI) term between the input and its latent variable to regularize the objective of the VAE. Since estimating the MI in the high-dimensional space is intractable, we employ neural networks for the estimation of the MI and provide a training algorithm based on the convex duality approach. Our experimental results on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed model, compared to the state-of-the-art baselines, exhibits less posterior collapse and has comparable or better performance in language modeling and text generation. We also qualitatively evaluate the inferred latent space and show that the proposed model can generate more reasonable and diverse sentences via linear interpolation in the latent space.
The exploding cost and time needed for data labeling and model training are bottlenecks for training DNN models on large datasets. Identifying smaller representative data samples with strategies like active learning can help mitigate such bottlenecks. Previous works on active learning in NLP identify the problem of sampling bias in the samples acquired by uncertainty-based querying and develop costly approaches to address it. Using a large empirical study, we demonstrate that active set selection using the posterior entropy of deep models like FastText.zip (FTZ) is robust to sampling biases and to various algorithmic choices (query size and strategies) unlike that suggested by traditional literature. We also show that FTZ based query strategy produces sample sets similar to those from more sophisticated approaches (e.g ensemble networks). Finally, we show the effectiveness of the selected samples by creating tiny high-quality datasets, and utilizing them for fast and cheap training of large models. Based on the above, we propose a simple baseline for deep active text classification that outperforms the state of the art. We expect the presented work to be useful and informative for dataset compression and for problems involving active, semi-supervised or online learning scenarios. Code and models are available at: https://github.com/drimpossible/Sampling-Bias-Active-Learning.
State-of-the-art models often make use of superficial patterns in the data that do not generalize well to out-of-domain or adversarial settings. For example, textual entailment models often learn that particular key words imply entailment, irrespective of context, and visual question answering models learn to predict prototypical answers, without considering evidence in the image. In this paper, we show that if we have prior knowledge of such biases, we can train a model to be more robust to domain shift. Our method has two stages: we (1) train a naive model that makes predictions exclusively based on dataset biases, and (2) train a robust model as part of an ensemble with the naive one in order to encourage it to focus on other patterns in the data that are more likely to generalize. Experiments on five datasets with out-of-domain test sets show significantly improved robustness in all settings, including a 12 point gain on a changing priors visual question answering dataset and a 9 point gain on an adversarial question answering test set.
Neural networks are part of many contemporary NLP systems, yet their empirical successes come at the price of vulnerability to adversarial attacks. Previous work has used adversarial training and data augmentation to partially mitigate such brittleness, but these are unlikely to find worst-case adversaries due to the complexity of the search space arising from discrete text perturbations. In this work, we approach the problem from the opposite direction: to formally verify a system{'}s robustness against a predefined class of adversarial attacks. We study text classification under synonym replacements or character flip perturbations. We propose modeling these input perturbations as a simplex and then using Interval Bound Propagation {--} a formal model verification method. We modify the conventional log-likelihood training objective to train models that can be efficiently verified, which would otherwise come with exponential search complexity. The resulting models show only little difference in terms of nominal accuracy, but have much improved verified accuracy under perturbations and come with an efficiently computable formal guarantee on worst case adversaries.
Selective rationalization has become a common mechanism to ensure that predictive models reveal how they use any available features. The selection may be soft or hard, and identifies a subset of input features relevant for prediction. The setup can be viewed as a co-operate game between the selector (aka rationale generator) and the predictor making use of only the selected features. The co-operative setting may, however, be compromised for two reasons. First, the generator typically has no direct access to the outcome it aims to justify, resulting in poor performance. Second, there{'}s typically no control exerted on the information left outside the selection. We revise the overall co-operative framework to address these challenges. We introduce an introspective model which explicitly predicts and incorporates the outcome into the selection process. Moreover, we explicitly control the rationale complement via an adversary so as not to leave any useful information out of the selection. We show that the two complementary mechanisms maintain both high predictive accuracy and lead to comprehensive rationales.
Neural language models are usually trained using Maximum-Likelihood Estimation (MLE). The corresponding objective function for MLE is derived from the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between the empirical probability distribution representing the data and the parametric probability distribution output by the model. However, the word frequency discrepancies in natural language make performance extremely uneven: while the perplexity is usually very low for frequent words, it is especially difficult to predict rare words. In this paper, we experiment with several families (alpha, beta and gamma) of power divergences, generalized from the KL divergence, for learning language models with an objective different than standard MLE. Intuitively, these divergences should affect the way the probability mass is spread during learning, notably by prioritizing performances on high or low-frequency words. In addition, we implement and experiment with various sampling-based objectives, where the computation of the output layer is only done on a small subset of the vocabulary. They are derived as power generalizations of a softmax approximated via Importance Sampling, and Noise Contrastive Estimation, for accelerated learning. Our experiments on the Penn Treebank and Wikitext-2 show that these power divergences can indeed be used to prioritize learning on the frequent or rare words, and lead to general performance improvements in the case of sampling-based learning.
CRF has been used as a powerful model for statistical sequence labeling. For neural sequence labeling, however, BiLSTM-CRF does not always lead to better results compared with BiLSTM-softmax local classification. This can be because the simple Markov label transition model of CRF does not give much information gain over strong neural encoding. For better representing label sequences, we investigate a hierarchically-refined label attention network, which explicitly leverages label embeddings and captures potential long-term label dependency by giving each word incrementally refined label distributions with hierarchical attention. Results on POS tagging, NER and CCG supertagging show that the proposed model not only improves the overall tagging accuracy with similar number of parameters, but also significantly speeds up the training and testing compared to BiLSTM-CRF.
State-of-the-art NLP models can often be fooled by adversaries that apply seemingly innocuous label-preserving transformations (e.g., paraphrasing) to input text. The number of possible transformations scales exponentially with text length, so data augmentation cannot cover all transformations of an input. This paper considers one exponentially large family of label-preserving transformations, in which every word in the input can be replaced with a similar word. We train the first models that are provably robust to all word substitutions in this family. Our training procedure uses Interval Bound Propagation (IBP) to minimize an upper bound on the worst-case loss that any combination of word substitutions can induce. To evaluate models{'} robustness to these transformations, we measure accuracy on adversarially chosen word substitutions applied to test examples. Our IBP-trained models attain 75{\%} adversarial accuracy on both sentiment analysis on IMDB and natural language inference on SNLI; in comparison, on IMDB, models trained normally and ones trained with data augmentation achieve adversarial accuracy of only 12{\%} and 41{\%}, respectively.
Language model pre-training, such as BERT, has achieved remarkable results in many NLP tasks. However, it is unclear why the pre-training-then-fine-tuning paradigm can improve performance and generalization capability across different tasks. In this paper, we propose to visualize loss landscapes and optimization trajectories of fine-tuning BERT on specific datasets. First, we find that pre-training reaches a good initial point across downstream tasks, which leads to wider optima and easier optimization compared with training from scratch. We also demonstrate that the fine-tuning procedure is robust to overfitting, even though BERT is highly over-parameterized for downstream tasks. Second, the visualization results indicate that fine-tuning BERT tends to generalize better because of the flat and wide optima, and the consistency between the training loss surface and the generalization error surface. Third, the lower layers of BERT are more invariant during fine-tuning, which suggests that the layers that are close to input learn more transferable representations of language.
Despite impressive performance on many text classification tasks, deep neural networks tend to learn frequent superficial patterns that are specific to the training data and do not always generalize well. In this work, we observe this limitation with respect to the task of \textit{native language identification}. We find that standard text classifiers which perform well on the test set end up learning topical features which are confounds of the prediction task (e.g., if the input text mentions Sweden, the classifier predicts that the author{'}s native language is Swedish). We propose a method that represents the latent topical confounds and a model which {``}unlearns{''} confounding features by predicting both the label of the input text and the confound; but we train the two predictors adversarially in an alternating fashion to learn a text representation that predicts the correct label but is less prone to using information about the confound. We show that this model generalizes better and learns features that are indicative of the writing style rather than the content.
Natural language has recently been explored as a new medium of supervision for training machine learning models. Here, we explore learning classification tasks using language in a conversational setting {--} where the automated learner does not simply receive language input from a teacher, but can proactively engage the teacher by asking questions. We present a reinforcement learning framework, where the learner{'}s actions correspond to question types and the reward for asking a question is based on how the teacher{'}s response changes performance of the resulting machine learning model on the learning task. In this framework, learning good question-asking strategies corresponds to asking sequences of questions that maximize the cumulative (discounted) reward, and hence quickly lead to effective classifiers. Empirical analysis across three domains shows that learned question-asking strategies expedite classifier training by asking appropriate questions at different points in the learning process. The approach allows learning classifiers from a blend of strategies, including learning from observations, explanations and clarifications.
We focus on the problem of language modeling for code-switched language, in the context of automatic speech recognition (ASR). Language modeling for code-switched language is challenging for (at least) three reasons: (1) lack of available large-scale code-switched data for training; (2) lack of a replicable evaluation setup that is ASR directed yet isolates language modeling performance from the other intricacies of the ASR system; and (3) the reliance on generative modeling. We tackle these three issues: we propose an ASR-motivated evaluation setup which is decoupled from an ASR system and the choice of vocabulary, and provide an evaluation dataset for English-Spanish code-switching. This setup lends itself to a discriminative training approach, which we demonstrate to work better than generative language modeling. Finally, we explore a variety of training protocols and verify the effectiveness of training with large amounts of monolingual data followed by fine-tuning with small amounts of code-switched data, for both the generative and discriminative cases.
Query-based open-domain NLP tasks require information synthesis from long and diverse web results. Current approaches extractively select portions of web text as input to Sequence-to-Sequence models using methods such as TF-IDF ranking. We propose constructing a local graph structured knowledge base for each query, which compresses the web search information and reduces redundancy. We show that by linearizing the graph into a structured input sequence, models can encode the graph representations within a standard Sequence-to-Sequence setting. For two generative tasks with very long text input, long-form question answering and multi-document summarization, feeding graph representations as input can achieve better performance than using retrieved text portions.
In sequence labeling, previous domain adaptation methods focus on the adaptation from the source domain to the entire target domain without considering the diversity of individual target domain samples, which may lead to negative transfer results for certain samples. Besides, an important characteristic of sequence labeling tasks is that different elements within a given sample may also have diverse domain relevance, which requires further consideration. To take the multi-level domain relevance discrepancy into account, in this paper, we propose a fine-grained knowledge fusion model with the domain relevance modeling scheme to control the balance between learning from the target domain data and learning from the source domain model. Experiments on three sequence labeling tasks show that our fine-grained knowledge fusion model outperforms strong baselines and other state-of-the-art sequence labeling domain adaptation methods.
While target-side monolingual data has been proven to be very useful to improve neural machine translation (briefly, NMT) through back translation, source-side monolingual data is not well investigated. In this work, we study how to use both the source-side and target-side monolingual data for NMT, and propose an effective strategy leveraging both of them. First, we generate synthetic bitext by translating monolingual data from the two domains into the other domain using the models pretrained on genuine bitext. Next, a model is trained on a noised version of the concatenated synthetic bitext where each source sequence is randomly corrupted. Finally, the model is fine-tuned on the genuine bitext and a clean version of a subset of the synthetic bitext without adding any noise. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on WMT16, WMT17, WMT18 English$\leftrightarrow$German translations and WMT19 German$\to$French translations, which demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. We also conduct a comprehensive study on how each part in the pipeline works.
Link prediction is an important way to complete knowledge graphs (KGs), while embedding-based methods, effective for link prediction in KGs, perform poorly on relations that only have a few associative triples. In this work, we propose a Meta Relational Learning (MetaR) framework to do the common but challenging few-shot link prediction in KGs, namely predicting new triples about a relation by only observing a few associative triples. We solve few-shot link prediction by focusing on transferring relation-specific meta information to make model learn the most important knowledge and learn faster, corresponding to relation meta and gradient meta respectively in MetaR. Empirically, our model achieves state-of-the-art results on few-shot link prediction KG benchmarks.
Language models are generally trained on data spanning a wide range of topics (e.g., news, reviews, fiction), but they might be applied to an a priori unknown target distribution (e.g., restaurant reviews). In this paper, we first show that training on text outside the test distribution can degrade test performance when using standard maximum likelihood (MLE) training. To remedy this without the knowledge of the test distribution, we propose an approach which trains a model that performs well over a wide range of potential test distributions. In particular, we derive a new distributionally robust optimization (DRO) procedure which minimizes the loss of the model over the worst-case mixture of topics with sufficient overlap with the training distribution. Our approach, called topic conditional value at risk (topic CVaR), obtains a 5.5 point perplexity reduction over MLE when the language models are trained on a mixture of Yelp reviews and news and tested only on reviews.
Contextualized word embeddings such as ELMo and BERT provide a foundation for strong performance across a wide range of natural language processing tasks by pretraining on large corpora of unlabeled text. However, the applicability of this approach is unknown when the target domain varies substantially from the pretraining corpus. We are specifically interested in the scenario in which labeled data is available in only a canonical source domain such as newstext, and the target domain is distinct from both the labeled and pretraining texts. To address this scenario, we propose domain-adaptive fine-tuning, in which the contextualized embeddings are adapted by masked language modeling on text from the target domain. We test this approach on sequence labeling in two challenging domains: Early Modern English and Twitter. Both domains differ substantially from existing pretraining corpora, and domain-adaptive fine-tuning yields substantial improvements over strong BERT baselines, with particularly impressive results on out-of-vocabulary words. We conclude that domain-adaptive fine-tuning offers a simple and effective approach for the unsupervised adaptation of sequence labeling to difficult new domains.
Incorporating Item Response Theory (IRT) into NLP tasks can provide valuable information about model performance and behavior. Traditionally, IRT models are learned using human response pattern (RP) data, presenting a significant bottleneck for large data sets like those required for training deep neural networks (DNNs). In this work we propose learning IRT models using RPs generated from artificial crowds of DNN models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of learning IRT models using DNN-generated data through quantitative and qualitative analyses for two NLP tasks. Parameters learned from human and machine RPs for natural language inference and sentiment analysis exhibit medium to large positive correlations. We demonstrate a use-case for latent difficulty item parameters, namely training set filtering, and show that using difficulty to sample training data outperforms baseline methods. Finally, we highlight cases where human expectation about item difficulty does not match difficulty as estimated from the machine RPs.
We present a Parallel Iterative Edit (PIE) model for the problem of local sequence transduction arising in tasks like Grammatical error correction (GEC). Recent approaches are based on the popular encoder-decoder (ED) model for sequence to sequence learning. The ED model auto-regressively captures full dependency among output tokens but is slow due to sequential decoding. The PIE model does parallel decoding, giving up the advantage of modeling full dependency in the output, yet it achieves accuracy competitive with the ED model for four reasons: 1. predicting edits instead of tokens, 2. labeling sequences instead of generating sequences, 3. iteratively refining predictions to capture dependencies, and 4. factorizing logits over edits and their token argument to harness pre-trained language models like BERT. Experiments on tasks spanning GEC, OCR correction and spell correction demonstrate that the PIE model is an accurate and significantly faster alternative for local sequence transduction.
Most of the existing generative adversarial networks (GAN) for text generation suffer from the instability of reinforcement learning training algorithms such as policy gradient, leading to unstable performance. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel framework called Adversarial Reward Augmented Maximum Likelihood (ARAML). During adversarial training, the discriminator assigns rewards to samples which are acquired from a stationary distribution near the data rather than the generator{'}s distribution. The generator is optimized with maximum likelihood estimation augmented by the discriminator{'}s rewards instead of policy gradient. Experiments show that our model can outperform state-of-the-art text GANs with a more stable training process.
Most sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models are autoregressive; they generate each token by conditioning on previously generated tokens. In contrast, non-autoregressive seq2seq models generate all tokens in one pass, which leads to increased efficiency through parallel processing on hardware such as GPUs. However, directly modeling the joint distribution of all tokens simultaneously is challenging, and even with increasingly complex model structures accuracy lags significantly behind autoregressive models. In this paper, we propose a simple, efficient, and effective model for non-autoregressive sequence generation using latent variable models. Specifically, we turn to generative flow, an elegant technique to model complex distributions using neural networks, and design several layers of flow tailored for modeling the conditional density of sequential latent variables. We evaluate this model on three neural machine translation (NMT) benchmark datasets, achieving comparable performance with state-of-the-art non-autoregressive NMT models and almost constant decoding time w.r.t the sequence length.
Compositional generalization is a basic mechanism in human language learning, but current neural networks lack such ability. In this paper, we conduct fundamental research for encoding compositionality in neural networks. Conventional methods use a single representation for the input sentence, making it hard to apply prior knowledge of compositionality. In contrast, our approach leverages such knowledge with two representations, one generating attention maps, and the other mapping attended input words to output symbols. We reduce the entropy in each representation to improve generalization. Our experiments demonstrate significant improvements over the conventional methods in five NLP tasks including instruction learning and machine translation. In the SCAN domain, it boosts accuracies from 14.0{\%} to 98.8{\%} in Jump task, and from 92.0{\%} to 99.7{\%} in TurnLeft task. It also beats human performance on a few-shot learning task. We hope the proposed approach can help ease future research towards human-level compositional language learning.
Pronoun resolution is a major area of natural language understanding. However, large-scale training sets are still scarce, since manually labelling data is costly. In this work, we introduce WikiCREM (Wikipedia CoREferences Masked) a large-scale, yet accurate dataset of pronoun disambiguation instances. We use a language-model-based approach for pronoun resolution in combination with our WikiCREM dataset. We compare a series of models on a collection of diverse and challenging coreference resolution problems, where we match or outperform previous state-of-the-art approaches on 6 out of 7 datasets, such as GAP, DPR, WNLI, PDP, WinoBias, and WinoGender. We release our model to be used off-the-shelf for solving pronoun disambiguation.
Identifying what is at the center of the meaning of a word and what discriminates it from other words is a fundamental natural language inference task. This paper describes an explicit word vector representation model (WVM) to support the identification of discriminative attributes. A core contribution of the paper is a quantitative and qualitative comparative analysis of different types of data sources and Knowledge Bases in the construction of explainable and explicit WVMs: (i) knowledge graphs built from dictionary definitions, (ii) entity-attribute-relationships graphs derived from images and (iii) commonsense knowledge graphs. Using a detailed quantitative and qualitative analysis, we demonstrate that these data sources have complementary semantic aspects, supporting the creation of explicit semantic vector spaces. The explicit vector spaces are evaluated using the task of discriminative attribute identification, showing comparable performance to the state-of-the-art systems in the task (F1-score = 0.69), while delivering full model transparency and explainability.
Pre-trained language models such as BERT have proven to be highly effective for natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, the high demand for computing resources in training such models hinders their application in practice. In order to alleviate this resource hunger in large-scale model training, we propose a Patient Knowledge Distillation approach to compress an original large model (teacher) into an equally-effective lightweight shallow network (student). Different from previous knowledge distillation methods, which only use the output from the last layer of the teacher network for distillation, our student model patiently learns from multiple intermediate layers of the teacher model for incremental knowledge extraction, following two strategies: (i) PKD-Last: learning from the last k layers; and (ii) PKD-Skip: learning from every k layers. These two patient distillation schemes enable the exploitation of rich information in the teacher{'}s hidden layers, and encourage the student model to patiently learn from and imitate the teacher through a multi-layer distillation process. Empirically, this translates into improved results on multiple NLP tasks with a significant gain in training efficiency, without sacrificing model accuracy.
Variational language models seek to estimate the posterior of latent variables with an approximated variational posterior. The model often assumes the variational posterior to be factorized even when the true posterior is not. The learned variational posterior under this assumption does not capture the dependency relationships over latent variables. We argue that this would cause a typical training problem called posterior collapse observed in all other variational language models. We propose Gaussian Copula Variational Autoencoder (VAE) to avert this problem. Copula is widely used to model correlation and dependencies of high-dimensional random variables, and therefore it is helpful to maintain the dependency relationships that are lost in VAE. The empirical results show that by modeling the correlation of latent variables explicitly using a neural parametric copula, we can avert this training difficulty while getting competitive results among all other VAE approaches.
Transformer is a powerful architecture that achieves superior performance on various sequence learning tasks, including neural machine translation, language understanding, and sequence prediction. At the core of the Transformer is the attention mechanism, which concurrently processes all inputs in the streams. In this paper, we present a new formulation of attention via the lens of the kernel. To be more precise, we realize that the attention can be seen as applying kernel smoother over the inputs with the kernel scores being the similarities between inputs. This new formulation gives us a better way to understand individual components of the Transformer{'}s attention, such as the better way to integrate the positional embedding. Another important advantage of our kernel-based formulation is that it paves the way to a larger space of composing Transformer{'}s attention. As an example, we propose a new variant of Transformer{'}s attention which models the input as a product of symmetric kernels. This approach achieves competitive performance to the current state of the art model with less computation. In our experiments, we empirically study different kernel construction strategies on two widely used tasks: neural machine translation and sequence prediction.
Many tasks in natural language processing can be viewed as multi-label classification problems. However, most of the existing models are trained with the standard cross-entropy loss function and use a fixed prediction policy (e.g., a threshold of 0.5) for all the labels, which completely ignores the complexity and dependencies among different labels. In this paper, we propose a meta-learning method to capture these complex label dependencies. More specifically, our method utilizes a meta-learner to jointly learn the training policies and prediction policies for different labels. The training policies are then used to train the classifier with the cross-entropy loss function, and the prediction policies are further implemented for prediction. Experimental results on fine-grained entity typing and text classification demonstrate that our proposed method can obtain more accurate multi-label classification results.
BERT-based architectures currently give state-of-the-art performance on many NLP tasks, but little is known about the exact mechanisms that contribute to its success. In the current work, we focus on the interpretation of self-attention, which is one of the fundamental underlying components of BERT. Using a subset of GLUE tasks and a set of handcrafted features-of-interest, we propose the methodology and carry out a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the information encoded by the individual BERT{'}s heads. Our findings suggest that there is a limited set of attention patterns that are repeated across different heads, indicating the overall model overparametrization. While different heads consistently use the same attention patterns, they have varying impact on performance across different tasks. We show that manually disabling attention in certain heads leads to a performance improvement over the regular fine-tuned BERT models.
Neural machine translation, which achieves near human-level performance in some languages, strongly relies on the large amounts of parallel sentences, which hinders its applicability to low-resource language pairs. Recent works explore the possibility of unsupervised machine translation with monolingual data only, leading to much lower accuracy compared with the supervised one. Observing that weakly paired bilingual documents are much easier to collect than bilingual sentences, e.g., from Wikipedia, news websites or books, in this paper, we investigate training translation models with weakly paired bilingual documents. Our approach contains two components. 1) We provide a simple approach to mine implicitly bilingual sentence pairs from document pairs which can then be used as supervised training signals. 2) We leverage the topic consistency of two weakly paired documents and learn the sentence translation model by constraining the word distribution-level alignments. We evaluate our method on weakly paired documents from Wikipedia on six tasks, the widely used WMT16 German$\leftrightarrow$English, WMT13 Spanish$\leftrightarrow$English and WMT16 Romanian$\leftrightarrow$English translation tasks. We obtain 24.1/30.3, 28.1/27.6 and 30.1/27.6 BLEU points separately, outperforming previous results by more than 5 BLEU points in each direction and reducing the gap between unsupervised translation and supervised translation up to 50{\%}.
Emergent multi-agent communication protocols are very different from natural language and not easily interpretable by humans. We find that agents that were initially pretrained to produce natural language can also experience detrimental language drift: when a non-linguistic reward is used in a goal-based task, e.g. some scalar success metric, the communication protocol may easily and radically diverge from natural language. We recast translation as a multi-agent communication game and examine auxiliary training constraints for their effectiveness in mitigating language drift. We show that a combination of syntactic (language model likelihood) and semantic (visual grounding) constraints gives the best communication performance, allowing pre-trained agents to retain English syntax while learning to accurately convey the intended meaning.
We seek to understand how the representations of individual tokens and the structure of the learned feature space evolve between layers in deep neural networks under different learning objectives. We chose the Transformers for our analysis as they have been shown effective with various tasks, including machine translation (MT), standard left-to-right language models (LM) and masked language modeling (MLM). Previous work used black-box probing tasks to show that the representations learned by the Transformer differ significantly depending on the objective. In this work, we use canonical correlation analysis and mutual information estimators to study how information flows across Transformer layers and observe that the choice of the objective determines this process. For example, as you go from bottom to top layers, information about the past in left-to-right language models gets vanished and predictions about the future get formed. In contrast, for MLM, representations initially acquire information about the context around the token, partially forgetting the token identity and producing a more generalized token representation. The token identity then gets recreated at the top MLM layers.
Recent efforts in cross-lingual word embedding (CLWE) learning have predominantly focused on fully unsupervised approaches that project monolingual embeddings into a shared cross-lingual space without any cross-lingual signal. The lack of any supervision makes such approaches conceptually attractive. Yet, their only core difference from (weakly) supervised projection-based CLWE methods is in the way they obtain a seed dictionary used to initialize an iterative self-learning procedure. The fully unsupervised methods have arguably become more robust, and their primary use case is CLWE induction for pairs of resource-poor and distant languages. In this paper, we question the ability of even the most robust unsupervised CLWE approaches to induce meaningful CLWEs in these more challenging settings. A series of bilingual lexicon induction (BLI) experiments with 15 diverse languages (210 language pairs) show that fully unsupervised CLWE methods still fail for a large number of language pairs (e.g., they yield zero BLI performance for 87/210 pairs). Even when they succeed, they never surpass the performance of weakly supervised methods (seeded with 500-1,000 translation pairs) using the same self-learning procedure in any BLI setup, and the gaps are often substantial. These findings call for revisiting the main motivations behind fully unsupervised CLWE methods.
Distributed representations of words which map each word to a continuous vector have proven useful in capturing important linguistic information not only in a single language but also across different languages. Current unsupervised adversarial approaches show that it is possible to build a mapping matrix that aligns two sets of monolingual word embeddings without high quality parallel data, such as a dictionary or a sentence-aligned corpus. However, without an additional step of refinement, the preliminary mapping learnt by these methods is unsatisfactory, leading to poor performance for typologically distant languages. In this paper, we propose a weakly-supervised adversarial training method to overcome this limitation, based on the intuition that mapping across languages is better done at the concept level than at the word level. We propose a concept-based adversarial training method which improves the performance of previous unsupervised adversarial methods for most languages, and especially for typologically distant language pairs.
Multilingual knowledge graphs (KGs), such as YAGO and DBpedia, represent entities in different languages. The task of cross-lingual entity alignment is to match entities in a source language with their counterparts in target languages. In this work, we investigate embedding-based approaches to encode entities from multilingual KGs into the same vector space, where equivalent entities are close to each other. Specifically, we apply graph convolutional networks (GCNs) to combine multi-aspect information of entities, including topological connections, relations, and attributes of entities, to learn entity embeddings. To exploit the literal descriptions of entities expressed in different languages, we propose two uses of a pretrained multilingual BERT model to bridge cross-lingual gaps. We further propose two strategies to integrate GCN-based and BERT-based modules to boost performance. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms existing systems.
We study cross-lingual stance detection, which aims to leverage labeled data in one language to identify the relative perspective (or stance) of a given document with respect to a claim in a different target language. In particular, we introduce a novel contrastive language adaptation approach applied to memory networks, which ensures accurate alignment of stances in the source and target languages, and can effectively deal with the challenge of limited labeled data in the target language. The evaluation results on public benchmark datasets and comparison against current state-of-the-art approaches demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
The state of the art in machine translation (MT) is governed by neural approaches, which typically provide superior translation accuracy over statistical approaches. However, on the closely related task of word alignment, traditional statistical word alignment models often remain the go-to solution. In this paper, we present an approach to train a Transformer model to produce both accurate translations and alignments. We extract discrete alignments from the attention probabilities learnt during regular neural machine translation model training and leverage them in a multi-task framework to optimize towards translation and alignment objectives. We demonstrate that our approach produces competitive results compared to GIZA++ trained IBM alignment models without sacrificing translation accuracy and outperforms previous attempts on Transformer model based word alignment. Finally, by incorporating IBM model alignments into our multi-task training, we report significantly better alignment accuracies compared to GIZA++ on three publicly available data sets.
We introduce Social IQa, the first large-scale benchmark for commonsense reasoning about social situations. Social IQa contains 38,000 multiple choice questions for probing emotional and social intelligence in a variety of everyday situations (e.g., Q: {``}Jordan wanted to tell Tracy a secret, so Jordan leaned towards Tracy. Why did Jordan do this?{''} A: {``}Make sure no one else could hear{''}). Through crowdsourcing, we collect commonsense questions along with correct and incorrect answers about social interactions, using a new framework that mitigates stylistic artifacts in incorrect answers by asking workers to provide the right answer to a different but related question. Empirical results show that our benchmark is challenging for existing question-answering models based on pretrained language models, compared to human performance ({\textgreater}20{\%} gap). Notably, we further establish Social IQa as a resource for transfer learning of commonsense knowledge, achieving state-of-the-art performance on multiple commonsense reasoning tasks (Winograd Schemas, COPA).
Multi-hop QA requires a model to connect multiple pieces of evidence scattered in a long context to answer the question. The recently proposed HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) dataset is comprised of questions embodying four different multi-hop reasoning paradigms (two bridge entity setups, checking multiple properties, and comparing two entities), making it challenging for a single neural network to handle all four. In this work, we present an interpretable, controller-based Self-Assembling Neural Modular Network (Hu et al., 2017, 2018) for multi-hop reasoning, where we design four novel modules (Find, Relocate, Compare, NoOp) to perform unique types of language reasoning. Based on a question, our layout controller RNN dynamically infers a series of reasoning modules to construct the entire network. Empirically, we show that our dynamic, multi-hop modular network achieves significant improvements over the static, single-hop baseline (on both regular and adversarial evaluation). We further demonstrate the interpretability of our model via three analyses. First, the controller can softly decompose the multi-hop question into multiple single-hop sub-questions to promote compositional reasoning behavior of the main network. Second, the controller can predict layouts that conform to the layouts designed by human experts. Finally, the intermediate module can infer the entity that connects two distantly-located supporting facts by addressing the sub-question from the controller.
Deep learning models for semantics are generally evaluated using naturalistic corpora. Adversarial testing methods, in which models are evaluated on new examples with known semantic properties, have begun to reveal that good performance at these naturalistic tasks can hide serious shortcomings. However, we should insist that these evaluations be fair {--} that the models are given data sufficient to support the requisite kinds of generalization. In this paper, we define and motivate a formal notion of fairness in this sense. We then apply these ideas to natural language inference by constructing very challenging but provably fair artificial datasets and showing that standard neural models fail to generalize in the required ways; only task-specific models that jointly compose the premise and hypothesis are able to achieve high performance, and even these models do not solve the task perfectly.
Our goal is to better comprehend procedural text, e.g., a paragraph about photosynthesis, by not only predicting what happens, but *why* some actions need to happen before others. Our approach builds on a prior process comprehension framework for predicting actions{'} effects, to also identify subsequent steps that those effects enable. We present our new model (XPAD) that biases effect predictions towards those that (1) explain more of the actions in the paragraph and (2) are more plausible with respect to background knowledge. We also extend an existing benchmark dataset for procedural text comprehension, ProPara, by adding the new task of explaining actions by predicting their dependencies. We find that XPAD significantly outperforms prior systems on this task, while maintaining the performance on the original task in ProPara. The dataset is available at http://data.allenai.org/propara
The recent success of natural language understanding (NLU) systems has been troubled by results highlighting the failure of these models to generalize in a systematic and robust way. In this work, we introduce a diagnostic benchmark suite, named CLUTRR, to clarify some key issues related to the robustness and systematicity of NLU systems. Motivated by the classic work on inductive logic programming, CLUTRR requires that an NLU system infer kinship relations between characters in short stories. Successful performance on this task requires both extracting relationships between entities, as well as inferring the logical rules governing these relationships. CLUTRR allows us to precisely measure a model{'}s ability for systematic generalization by evaluating on held-out combinations of logical rules, and allows us to evaluate a model{'}s robustness by adding curated noise facts. Our empirical results highlight a substantial performance gap between state-of-the-art NLU models (e.g., BERT and MAC) and a graph neural network model that works directly with symbolic inputs{---}with the graph-based model exhibiting both stronger generalization and greater robustness.
A significant barrier to progress in data-driven approaches to building dialog systems is the lack of high quality, goal-oriented conversational data. To help satisfy this elementary requirement, we introduce the initial release of the Taskmaster-1 dataset which includes 13,215 task-based dialogs comprising six domains. Two procedures were used to create this collection, each with unique advantages. The first involves a two-person, spoken {``}Wizard of Oz{''} (WOz) approach in which trained agents and crowdsourced workers interact to complete the task while the second is {``}self-dialog{''} in which crowdsourced workers write the entire dialog themselves. We do not restrict the workers to detailed scripts or to a small knowledge base and hence we observe that our dataset contains more realistic and diverse conversations in comparison to existing datasets. We offer several baseline models including state of the art neural seq2seq architectures with benchmark performance as well as qualitative human evaluations. Dialogs are labeled with API calls and arguments, a simple and cost effective approach which avoids the requirement of complex annotation schema. The layer of abstraction between the dialog model and the service provider API allows for a given model to interact with multiple services that provide similar functionally. Finally, the dataset will evoke interest in written vs. spoken language, discourse patterns, error handling and other linguistic phenomena related to dialog system research, development and design.
The need for high-quality, large-scale, goal-oriented dialogue datasets continues to grow as virtual assistants become increasingly wide-spread. However, publicly available datasets useful for this area are limited either in their size, linguistic diversity, domain coverage, or annotation granularity. In this paper, we present strategies toward curating and annotating large scale goal oriented dialogue data. We introduce the MultiDoGO dataset to overcome these limitations. With a total of over 81K dialogues harvested across six domains, MultiDoGO is over 8 times the size of MultiWOZ, the other largest comparable dialogue dataset currently available to the public. Over 54K of these harvested conversations are annotated for intent classes and slot labels. We adopt a Wizard-of-Oz approach wherein a crowd-sourced worker (the {``}customer{''}) is paired with a trained annotator (the {``}agent{''}). The data curation process was controlled via biases to ensure a diversity in dialogue flows following variable dialogue policies. We provide distinct class label tags for agents vs. customer utterances, along with applicable slot labels. We also compare and contrast our strategies on annotation granularity, i.e. turn vs. sentence level. Furthermore, we compare and contrast annotations curated by leveraging professional annotators vs the crowd. We believe our strategies for eliciting and annotating such a dialogue dataset scales across modalities and domains and potentially languages in the future. To demonstrate the efficacy of our devised strategies we establish neural baselines for classification on the agent and customer utterances as well as slot labeling for each domain.
The detection of offensive language in the context of a dialogue has become an increasingly important application of natural language processing. The detection of trolls in public forums (Gal{\'a}n-Garc{\'\i}a et al., 2016), and the deployment of chatbots in the public domain (Wolf et al., 2017) are two examples that show the necessity of guarding against adversarially offensive behavior on the part of humans. In this work, we develop a training scheme for a model to become robust to such human attacks by an iterative build it, break it, fix it scheme with humans and models in the loop. In detailed experiments we show this approach is considerably more robust than previous systems. Further, we show that offensive language used within a conversation critically depends on the dialogue context, and cannot be viewed as a single sentence offensive detection task as in most previous work. Our newly collected tasks and methods are all made open source and publicly available.
Ellipsis and co-reference are common and ubiquitous especially in multi-turn dialogues. In this paper, we treat the resolution of ellipsis and co-reference in dialogue as a problem of generating omitted or referred expressions from the dialogue context. We therefore propose a unified end-to-end Generative Ellipsis and CO-reference Resolution model (GECOR) in the context of dialogue. The model can generate a new pragmatically complete user utterance by alternating the generation and copy mode for each user utterance. A multi-task learning framework is further proposed to integrate the GECOR into an end-to-end task-oriented dialogue. In order to train both the GECOR and the multi-task learning framework, we manually construct a new dataset on the basis of the public dataset CamRest676 with both ellipsis and co-reference annotation. On this dataset, intrinsic evaluations on the resolution of ellipsis and co-reference show that the GECOR model significantly outperforms the sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) baseline model in terms of EM, BLEU and F1 while extrinsic evaluations on the downstream dialogue task demonstrate that our multi-task learning framework with GECOR achieves a higher success rate of task completion than TSCP, a state-of-the-art end-to-end task-oriented dialogue model.
How to incorporate external knowledge into a neural dialogue model is critically important for dialogue systems to behave like real humans. To handle this problem, memory networks are usually a great choice and a promising way. However, existing memory networks do not perform well when leveraging heterogeneous information from different sources. In this paper, we propose a novel and versatile external memory networks called Heterogeneous Memory Networks (HMNs), to simultaneously utilize user utterances, dialogue history and background knowledge tuples. In our method, historical sequential dialogues are encoded and stored into the context-aware memory enhanced by gating mechanism while grounding knowledge tuples are encoded and stored into the context-free memory. During decoding, the decoder augmented with HMNs recurrently selects each word in one response utterance from these two memories and a general vocabulary. Experimental results on multiple real-world datasets show that HMNs significantly outperform the state-of-the-art data-driven task-oriented dialogue models in most domains.
Due to their inherent capability in semantic alignment of aspects and their context words, attention mechanism and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are widely applied for aspect-based sentiment classification. However, these models lack a mechanism to account for relevant syntactical constraints and long-range word dependencies, and hence may mistakenly recognize syntactically irrelevant contextual words as clues for judging aspect sentiment. To tackle this problem, we propose to build a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) over the dependency tree of a sentence to exploit syntactical information and word dependencies. Based on it, a novel aspect-specific sentiment classification framework is raised. Experiments on three benchmarking collections illustrate that our proposed model has comparable effectiveness to a range of state-of-the-art models, and further demonstrate that both syntactical information and long-range word dependencies are properly captured by the graph convolution structure.
Aspect words, indicating opinion targets, are essential in expressing and understanding human opinions. To identify aspects, most previous efforts focus on using sequence tagging models trained on human-annotated data. This work studies unsupervised aspect extraction and explores how words appear in global context (on sentence level) and local context (conveyed by neighboring words). We propose a novel neural model, capable of coupling global and local representation to discover aspect words. Experimental results on two benchmarks, laptop and restaurant reviews, show that our model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art models from previous studies evaluated with varying metrics. Analysis on model output show our ability to learn meaningful and coherent aspect representations. We further investigate how words distribute in global and local context, and find that aspect and non-aspect words do exhibit different context, interpreting our superiority in unsupervised aspect extraction.
Joint extraction of aspects and sentiments can be effectively formulated as a sequence labeling problem. However, such formulation hinders the effectiveness of supervised methods due to the lack of annotated sequence data in many domains. To address this issue, we firstly explore an unsupervised domain adaptation setting for this task. Prior work can only use common syntactic relations between aspect and opinion words to bridge the domain gaps, which highly relies on external linguistic resources. To resolve it, we propose a novel Selective Adversarial Learning (SAL) method to align the inferred correlation vectors that automatically capture their latent relations. The SAL method can dynamically learn an alignment weight for each word such that more important words can possess higher alignment weights to achieve fine-grained (word-level) adaptation. Empirically, extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed SAL method.
Aspect level sentiment classification is a fine-grained sentiment analysis task. To detect the sentiment towards a particular aspect in a sentence, previous studies have developed various attention-based methods for generating aspect-specific sentence representations. However, the attention may inherently introduce noise and downgrade the performance. In this paper, we propose constrained attention networks (CAN), a simple yet effective solution, to regularize the attention for multi-aspect sentiment analysis, which alleviates the drawback of the attention mechanism. Specifically, we introduce orthogonal regularization on multiple aspects and sparse regularization on each single aspect. Experimental results on two public datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. We further extend our approach to multi-task settings and outperform the state-of-the-art methods.
User-generated reviews can be decomposed into fine-grained segments (e.g., sentences, clauses), each evaluating a different aspect of the principal entity (e.g., price, quality, appearance). Automatically detecting these aspects can be useful for both users and downstream opinion mining applications. Current supervised approaches for learning aspect classifiers require many fine-grained aspect labels, which are labor-intensive to obtain. And, unfortunately, unsupervised topic models often fail to capture the aspects of interest. In this work, we consider weakly supervised approaches for training aspect classifiers that only require the user to provide a small set of seed words (i.e., weakly positive indicators) for the aspects of interest. First, we show that current weakly supervised approaches fail to leverage the predictive power of seed words for aspect detection. Next, we propose a student-teacher approach that effectively leverages seed words in a bag-of-words classifier (teacher); in turn, we use the teacher to train a second model (student) that is potentially more powerful (e.g., a neural network that uses pre-trained word embeddings). Finally, we show that iterative co-training can be used to cope with noisy seed words, leading to both improved teacher and student models. Our proposed approach consistently outperforms previous weakly supervised approaches (by 14.1 absolute F1 points on average) in six different domains of product reviews and six multilingual datasets of restaurant reviews.
Computing author intent from multimodal data like Instagram posts requires modeling a complex relationship between text and image. For example, a caption might evoke an ironic contrast with the image, so neither caption nor image is a mere transcript of the other. Instead they combine{---}via what has been called meaning multiplication (Bateman et al.)- to create a new meaning that has a more complex relation to the literal meanings of text and image. Here we introduce a multimodal dataset of 1299 Instagram posts labeled for three orthogonal taxonomies: the authorial intent behind the image-caption pair, the contextual relationship between the literal meanings of the image and caption, and the semiotic relationship between the signified meanings of the image and caption. We build a baseline deep multimodal classifier to validate the taxonomy, showing that employing both text and image improves intent detection by 9.6 compared to using only the image modality, demonstrating the commonality of non-intersective meaning multiplication. The gain with multimodality is greatest when the image and caption diverge semiotically. Our dataset offers a new resource for the study of the rich meanings that result from pairing text and image.
The prevalent use of social media leads to a vast amount of online conversations being produced on a daily basis. It presents a concrete challenge for individuals to better discover and engage in social media discussions. In this paper, we present a novel framework to automatically recommend conversations to users based on their prior conversation behaviors. Built on neural collaborative filtering, our model explores deep semantic features that measure how a user{'}s preferences match an ongoing conversation{'}s context. Furthermore, to identify salient characteristics from interleaving user interactions, our model incorporates graph-structured networks, where both replying relations and temporal features are encoded as conversation context. Experimental results on two large-scale datasets collected from Twitter and Reddit show that our model yields better performance than previous state-of-the-art models, which only utilize lexical features and ignore past user interactions in the conversations.
Recently, neural networks based on multi-task learning have achieved promising performance on fake news detection, which focuses on learning shared features among tasks as complementarity features to serve different tasks. However, in most of the existing approaches, the shared features are completely assigned to different tasks without selection, which may lead to some useless and even adverse features integrated into specific tasks. In this paper, we design a sifted multi-task learning method with a selected sharing layer for fake news detection. The selected sharing layer adopts gate mechanism and attention mechanism to filter and select shared feature flows between tasks. Experiments on two public and widely used competition datasets, i.e. RumourEval and PHEME, demonstrate that our proposed method achieves the state-of-the-art performance and boosts the F1-score by more than 0.87{\%}, 1.31{\%}, respectively.
We present a text-based framework for investigating moral sentiment change of the public via longitudinal corpora. Our framework is based on the premise that language use can inform people{'}s moral perception toward right or wrong, and we build our methodology by exploring moral biases learned from diachronic word embeddings. We demonstrate how a parameter-free model supports inference of historical shifts in moral sentiment toward concepts such as slavery and democracy over centuries at three incremental levels: moral relevance, moral polarity, and fine-grained moral dimensions. We apply this methodology to visualizing moral time courses of individual concepts and analyzing the relations between psycholinguistic variables and rates of moral sentiment change at scale. Our work offers opportunities for applying natural language processing toward characterizing moral sentiment change in society.
Causal interpretation of correlational findings from observational studies has been a major type of misinformation in science communication. Prior studies on identifying inappropriate use of causal language relied on manual content analysis, which is not scalable for examining a large volume of science publications. In this study, we first annotated a corpus of over 3,000 PubMed research conclusion sentences, then developed a BERT-based prediction model that classifies conclusion sentences into {``}no relationship{''}, {``}correlational{''}, {``}conditional causal{''}, and {``}direct causal{''} categories, achieving an accuracy of 0.90 and a macro-F1 of 0.88. We then applied the prediction model to measure the causal language use in the research conclusions of about 38,000 observational studies in PubMed. The prediction result shows that 21.7{\%} studies used direct causal language exclusively in their conclusions, and 32.4{\%} used some direct causal language. We also found that the ratio of causal language use differs among authors from different countries, challenging the notion of a shared consensus on causal language use in the global science community. Our prediction model could also be used to help identify the inappropriate use of causal language in science publications.
Current research on hate speech analysis is typically oriented towards monolingual and single classification tasks. In this paper, we present a new multilingual multi-aspect hate speech analysis dataset and use it to test the current state-of-the-art multilingual multitask learning approaches. We evaluate our dataset in various classification settings, then we discuss how to leverage our annotations in order to improve hate speech detection and classification in general.
We contribute the largest publicly available dataset of naturally occurring factual claims for the purpose of automatic claim verification. It is collected from 26 fact checking websites in English, paired with textual sources and rich metadata, and labelled for veracity by human expert journalists. We present an in-depth analysis of the dataset, highlighting characteristics and challenges. Further, we present results for automatic veracity prediction, both with established baselines and with a novel method for joint ranking of evidence pages and predicting veracity that outperforms all baselines. Significant performance increases are achieved by encoding evidence, and by modelling metadata. Our best-performing model achieves a Macro F1 of 49.2{\%}, showing that this is a challenging testbed for claim veracity prediction.
Textual network embeddings aim to learn a low-dimensional representation for every node in the network so that both the structural and textual information from the networks can be well preserved in the representations. Traditionally, the structural and textual embeddings were learned by models that rarely take the mutual influences between them into account. In this paper, a deep neural architecture is proposed to effectively fuse the two kinds of informations into one representation. The novelties of the proposed architecture are manifested in the aspects of a newly defined objective function, the complementary information fusion method for structural and textual features, and the mutual gate mechanism for textual feature extraction. Experimental results show that the proposed model outperforms the comparing methods on all three datasets.
Information about individuals can help to better understand what they say, particularly in social media where texts are short. Current approaches to modelling social media users pay attention to their social connections, but exploit this information in a static way, treating all connections uniformly. This ignores the fact, well known in sociolinguistics, that an individual may be part of several communities which are not equally relevant in all communicative situations. We present a model based on Graph Attention Networks that captures this observation. It dynamically explores the social graph of a user, computes a user representation given the most relevant connections for a target task, and combines it with linguistic information to make a prediction. We apply our model to three different tasks, evaluate it against alternative models, and analyse the results extensively, showing that it significantly outperforms other current methods.
Insightful findings in political science often require researchers to analyze documents of a certain subject or type, yet these documents are usually contained in large corpora that do not distinguish between pertinent and non-pertinent documents. In contrast, we can find corpora that label relevant documents but have limitations (e.g., from a single source or era), preventing their use for political science research. To bridge this gap, we present adaptive ensembling, an unsupervised domain adaptation framework, equipped with a novel text classification model and time-aware training to ensure our methods work well with diachronic corpora. Experiments on an expert-annotated dataset show that our framework outperforms strong benchmarks. Further analysis indicates that our methods are more stable, learn better representations, and extract cleaner corpora for fine-grained analysis.
Accurate estimation of user location is important for many online services. Previous neural network based methods largely ignore the hierarchical structure among locations. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical location prediction neural network for Twitter user geolocation. Our model first predicts the home country for a user, then uses the country result to guide the city-level prediction. In addition, we employ a character-aware word embedding layer to overcome the noisy information in tweets. With the feature fusion layer, our model can accommodate various feature combinations and achieves state-of-the-art results over three commonly used benchmarks under different feature settings. It not only improves the prediction accuracy but also greatly reduces the mean error distance.
Online discussions often derail into toxic exchanges between participants. Recent efforts mostly focused on detecting antisocial behavior after the fact, by analyzing single comments in isolation. To provide more timely notice to human moderators, a system needs to preemptively detect that a conversation is heading towards derailment before it actually turns toxic. This means modeling derailment as an emerging property of a conversation rather than as an isolated utterance-level event. Forecasting emerging conversational properties, however, poses several inherent modeling challenges. First, since conversations are dynamic, a forecasting model needs to capture the flow of the discussion, rather than properties of individual comments. Second, real conversations have an unknown horizon: they can end or derail at any time; thus a practical forecasting model needs to assess the risk in an online fashion, as the conversation develops. In this work we introduce a conversational forecasting model that learns an unsupervised representation of conversational dynamics and exploits it to predict future derailment as the conversation develops. By applying this model to two new diverse datasets of online conversations with labels for antisocial events, we show that it outperforms state-of-the-art systems at forecasting derailment.
Countering online hate speech is a critical yet challenging task, but one which can be aided by the use of Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques. Previous research has primarily focused on the development of NLP methods to automatically and effectively detect online hate speech while disregarding further action needed to calm and discourage individuals from using hate speech in the future. In addition, most existing hate speech datasets treat each post as an isolated instance, ignoring the conversational context. In this paper, we propose a novel task of generative hate speech intervention, where the goal is to automatically generate responses to intervene during online conversations that contain hate speech. As a part of this work, we introduce two fully-labeled large-scale hate speech intervention datasets collected from Gab and Reddit. These datasets provide conversation segments, hate speech labels, as well as intervention responses written by Mechanical Turk Workers. In this paper, we also analyze the datasets to understand the common intervention strategies and explore the performance of common automatic response generation methods on these new datasets to provide a benchmark for future research.
Gang-involved youth in cities such as Chicago sometimes post on social media to express their aggression towards rival gangs and previous research has demonstrated that a deep learning approach can predict aggression and loss in posts. To address the possibility of bias in this sensitive application, we developed an approach to systematically interpret the state of the art model. We found, surprisingly, that it frequently bases its predictions on stop words such as {``}a{''} or {``}on{''}, an approach that could harm social media users who have no aggressive intentions. To tackle this bias, domain experts annotated the rationales, highlighting words that explain why a tweet is labeled as {``}aggression{''}. These new annotations enable us to quantitatively measure how justified the model predictions are, and build models that drastically reduce bias. Our study shows that in high stake scenarios, accuracy alone cannot guarantee a good system and we need new evaluation methods.
In contrast to many decades of research on oral code-switching, the study of written multilingual productions has only recently enjoyed a surge of interest. Many open questions remain regarding the sociolinguistic underpinnings of written code-switching, and progress has been limited by a lack of suitable resources. We introduce a novel, large, and diverse dataset of written code-switched productions, curated from topical threads of multiple bilingual communities on the Reddit discussion platform, and explore questions that were mainly addressed in the context of spoken language thus far. We investigate whether findings in oral code-switching concerning content and style, as well as speaker proficiency, are carried over into written code-switching in discussion forums. The released dataset can further facilitate a range of research and practical activities.
Automatically verifying rumorous information has become an important and challenging task in natural language processing and social media analytics. Previous studies reveal that people{'}s stances towards rumorous messages can provide indicative clues for identifying the veracity of rumors, and thus determining the stances of public reactions is a crucial preceding step for rumor veracity prediction. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical multi-task learning framework for jointly predicting rumor stance and veracity on Twitter, which consists of two components. The bottom component of our framework classifies the stances of tweets in a conversation discussing a rumor via modeling the structural property based on a novel graph convolutional network. The top component predicts the rumor veracity by exploiting the temporal dynamics of stance evolution. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets show that our method outperforms previous methods in both rumor stance classification and veracity prediction.
Intent classification is an important building block of dialogue systems. With the burgeoning of conversational AI, existing systems are not capable of handling numerous fast-emerging intents, which motivates zero-shot intent classification. Nevertheless, research on this problem is still in the incipient stage and few methods are available. A recently proposed zero-shot intent classification method, IntentCapsNet, has been shown to achieve state-of-the-art performance. However, it has two unaddressed limitations: (1) it cannot deal with polysemy when extracting semantic capsules; (2) it hardly recognizes the utterances of unseen intents in the generalized zero-shot intent classification setting. To overcome these limitations, we propose to reconstruct capsule networks for zero-shot intent classification. First, we introduce a dimensional attention mechanism to fight against polysemy. Second, we reconstruct the transformation matrices for unseen intents by utilizing abundant latent information of the labeled utterances, which significantly improves the model generalization ability. Experimental results on two task-oriented dialogue datasets in different languages show that our proposed method outperforms IntentCapsNet and other strong baselines.
Person-job fit has been an important task which aims to automatically match job positions with suitable candidates. Previous methods mainly focus on solving the match task in single-domain setting, which may not work well when labeled data is limited. We study the domain adaptation problem for person-job fit. We first propose a deep global match network for capturing the global semantic interactions between two sentences from a job posting and a candidate resume respectively. Furthermore, we extend the match network and implement domain adaptation in three levels, sentence-level representation, sentence-level match, and global match. Extensive experiment results on a large real-world dataset consisting of six domains have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model, especially when there is not sufficient labeled data.
Short text classification has found rich and critical applications in news and tweet tagging to help users find relevant information. Due to lack of labeled training data in many practical use cases, there is a pressing need for studying semi-supervised short text classification. Most existing studies focus on long texts and achieve unsatisfactory performance on short texts due to the sparsity and limited labeled data. In this paper, we propose a novel heterogeneous graph neural network based method for semi-supervised short text classification, leveraging full advantage of few labeled data and large unlabeled data through information propagation along the graph. In particular, we first present a flexible HIN (heterogeneous information network) framework for modeling the short texts, which can integrate any type of additional information as well as capture their relations to address the semantic sparsity. Then, we propose Heterogeneous Graph ATtention networks (HGAT) to embed the HIN for short text classification based on a dual-level attention mechanism, including node-level and type-level attentions. The attention mechanism can learn the importance of different neighboring nodes as well as the importance of different node (information) types to a current node. Extensive experimental results have demonstrated that our proposed model outperforms state-of-the-art methods across six benchmark datasets significantly.
The readability of a digital text can influence people{'}s ability to learn new things about a range topics from digital resources (e.g., Wikipedia, WebMD). Readability also impacts search rankings, and is used to evaluate the performance of NLP systems. Despite this, we lack a thorough understanding of how to validly measure readability at scale, especially for domain-specific texts. In this work, we present a comparison of the validity of well-known readability measures and introduce a novel approach, Smart Cloze, which is designed to address shortcomings of existing measures. We compare these approaches across four different corpora: crowdworker-generated stories, Wikipedia articles, security and privacy advice, and health information. On these corpora, we evaluate the convergent and content validity of each measure, and detail tradeoffs in score precision, domain-specificity, and participant burden. These results provide a foundation for more accurate readability measurements and better evaluation of new natural-language-processing systems and tools.
With the development of NLP technologies, news can be automatically categorized and labeled according to a variety of characteristics, at the same time be represented as low dimensional embeddings. However, it lacks a systematic approach that effectively integrates the inherited features and inter-textual knowledge of news to represent the collective information with a dense vector. With the aim of filling this gap, the News2vec model is proposed to allow the distributed representation of news taking into account its associated features. To describe the cross-document linkages between news, a network consisting of news and its attributes is constructed. Moreover, the News2vec model treats the news node as a bag of features by developing the Subnode model. Based on the biased random walk and the skip-gram model, each news feature is mapped to a vector, and the news is thus represented as the sum of its features. This approach offers an easy solution to create embeddings for unseen news nodes based on its attributes. To evaluate our model, dimension reduction plots and correlation heat-maps are created to visualize the news vectors, together with the application of two downstream tasks, the stock movement prediction and news recommendation. By comparing with other established text/sentence embedding models, we show that News2vec achieves state-of-the-art performance on these news-related tasks.
This paper presents a novel architecture for recursive context-aware lexical simplification, REC-LS, that is capable of (1) making use of the wider context when detecting the words in need of simplification and suggesting alternatives, and (2) taking previous simplification steps into account. We show that our system outputs lexical simplifications that are grammatically correct and semantically appropriate, and outperforms the current state-of-the-art systems in lexical simplification.
Electronic Health Records (EHRs) contain both structured content and unstructured (text) content about a patient{'}s medical history. In the unstructured text parts, there are common sections such as Assessment and Plan, Social History, and Medications. These sections help physicians find information easily and can be used by an information retrieval system to return specific information sought by a user. However, it is common that the exact format of sections in a particular EHR does not adhere to known patterns. Therefore, being able to predict sections and headers in EHRs automatically is beneficial to physicians. Prior approaches in EHR section prediction have only used text data from EHRs and have required significant manual annotation. We propose using sections from medical literature (e.g., textbooks, journals, web content) that contain content similar to that found in EHR sections. Our approach uses data from a different kind of source where labels are provided without the need of a time-consuming annotation effort. We use this data to train two models: an RNN and a BERT-based model. We apply the learned models along with source data via transfer learning to predict sections in EHRs. Our results show that medical literature can provide helpful supervision signal for this classification task.
News recommendation is important for online news platforms to help users find interested news and alleviate information overload. Existing news recommendation methods usually rely on the news click history to model user interest. However, these methods may suffer from the data sparsity problem, since the news click behaviors of many users in online news platforms are usually very limited. Fortunately, some other kinds of user behaviors such as webpage browsing and search queries can also provide useful clues of users{'} news reading interest. In this paper, we propose a neural news recommendation approach which can exploit heterogeneous user behaviors. Our approach contains two major modules, i.e., news representation and user representation. In the news representation module, we learn representations of news from their titles via CNN networks, and apply attention networks to select important words. In the user representation module, we propose an attentive multi-view learning framework to learn unified representations of users from their heterogeneous behaviors such as search queries, clicked news and browsed webpages. In addition, we use word- and record-level attentions to select informative words and behavior records. Experiments on a real-world dataset validate the effectiveness of our approach.
User and item representation learning is critical for recommendation. Many of existing recommendation methods learn representations of users and items based on their ratings and reviews. However, the user-user and item-item relatedness are usually not considered in these methods, which may be insufficient. In this paper, we propose a neural recommendation approach which can utilize useful information from both review content and user-item graphs. Since reviews and graphs have different characteristics, we propose to use a multi-view learning framework to incorporate them as different views. In the review content-view, we propose to use a hierarchical model to first learn sentence representations from words, then learn review representations from sentences, and finally learn user/item representations from reviews. In addition, we propose to incorporate a three-level attention network into this view to select important words, sentences and reviews for learning informative user and item representations. In the graph-view, we propose a hierarchical graph neural network to jointly model the user-item, user-user and item-item relatedness by capturing the first- and second-order interactions between users and items in the user-item graph. In addition, we apply attention mechanism to model the importance of these interactions to learn informative user and item representations. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets validate the effectiveness of our approach.
Prior work has proposed effective methods to learn event representations that can capture syntactic and semantic information over text corpus, demonstrating their effectiveness for downstream tasks such as script event prediction. On the other hand, events extracted from raw texts lacks of commonsense knowledge, such as the intents and emotions of the event participants, which are useful for distinguishing event pairs when there are only subtle differences in their surface realizations. To address this issue, this paper proposes to leverage external commonsense knowledge about the intent and sentiment of the event. Experiments on three event-related tasks, i.e., event similarity, script event prediction and stock market prediction, show that our model obtains much better event embeddings for the tasks, achieving 78{\%} improvements on hard similarity task, yielding more precise inferences on subsequent events under given contexts, and better accuracies in predicting the volatilities of the stock market.
Adversarial attacks against machine learning models have threatened various real-world applications such as spam filtering and sentiment analysis. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, learning to discriminate perturbations (DISP), to identify and adjust malicious perturbations, thereby blocking adversarial attacks for text classification models. To identify adversarial attacks, a perturbation discriminator validates how likely a token in the text is perturbed and provides a set of potential perturbations. For each potential perturbation, an embedding estimator learns to restore the embedding of the original word based on the context and a replacement token is chosen based on approximate kNN search. DISP can block adversarial attacks for any NLP model without modifying the model structure or training procedure. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate that DISP significantly outperforms baseline methods in blocking adversarial attacks for text classification. In addition, in-depth analysis shows the robustness of DISP across different situations.
Citation count prediction (CCP) has been an important research task for automatically estimating the future impact of a scholarly paper. Previous studies mainly focus on extracting or mining useful features from the paper itself or the associated authors. An important kind of data signals, peer review text, has not been utilized for the CCP task. In this paper, we take the initiative to utilize peer review data for the CCP task with a neural prediction model. Our focus is to learn a comprehensive semantic representation for peer review text for improving the prediction performance. To achieve this goal, we incorporate the abstract-review match mechanism and the cross-review match mechanism to learn deep features from peer review text. We also consider integrating hand-crafted features via a wide component. The deep and wide components jointly make the prediction. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the usefulness of the peer review data and the effectiveness of the proposed model. Our dataset has been released online.
Document-level relation extraction is a complex human process that requires logical inference to extract relationships between named entities in text. Existing approaches use graph-based neural models with words as nodes and edges as relations between them, to encode relations across sentences. These models are node-based, i.e., they form pair representations based solely on the two target node representations. However, entity relations can be better expressed through unique edge representations formed as paths between nodes. We thus propose an edge-oriented graph neural model for document-level relation extraction. The model utilises different types of nodes and edges to create a document-level graph. An inference mechanism on the graph edges enables to learn intra- and inter-sentence relations using multi-instance learning internally. Experiments on two document-level biomedical datasets for chemical-disease and gene-disease associations show the usefulness of the proposed edge-oriented approach.
Text style transfer task requires the model to transfer a sentence of one style to another style while retaining its original content meaning, which is a challenging problem that has long suffered from the shortage of parallel data. In this paper, we first propose a semi-supervised text style transfer model that combines the small-scale parallel data with the large-scale nonparallel data. With these two types of training data, we introduce a projection function between the latent space of different styles and design two constraints to train it. We also introduce two other simple but effective semi-supervised methods to compare with. To evaluate the performance of the proposed methods, we build and release a novel style transfer dataset that alters sentences between the style of ancient Chinese poem and the modern Chinese.
Privacy policies are long and complex documents that are difficult for users to read and understand. Yet, they have legal effects on how user data can be collected, managed and used. Ideally, we would like to empower users to inform themselves about the issues that matter to them, and enable them to selectively explore these issues. We present PrivacyQA, a corpus consisting of 1750 questions about the privacy policies of mobile applications, and over 3500 expert annotations of relevant answers. We observe that a strong neural baseline underperforms human performance by almost 0.3 F1 on PrivacyQA, suggesting considerable room for improvement for future systems. Further, we use this dataset to categorically identify challenges to question answerability, with domain-general implications for any question answering system. The PrivacyQA corpus offers a challenging corpus for question answering, with genuine real world utility.
Different from other text generation tasks, in product description generation, it is of vital importance to generate faithful descriptions that stick to the product attribute information. However, little attention has been paid to this problem. To bridge this gap we propose a model named Fidelity-oriented Product Description Generator (FPDG). FPDG takes the entity label of each word into account, since the product attribute information is always conveyed by entity words. Specifically, we first propose a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) decoder based on the Entity-label-guided Long Short-Term Memory (ELSTM) cell, taking both the embedding and the entity label of each word as input. Second, we establish a keyword memory that stores the entity labels as keys and keywords as values, and FPDG will attend to keywords through attending to their entity labels. Experiments conducted a large-scale real-world product description dataset show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance in terms of both traditional generation metrics as well as human evaluations. Specifically, FPDG increases the fidelity of the generated descriptions by 25{\%}.
This paper addresses the problem of inferring the fine-grained type of an entity from a knowledge base. We convert this problem into the task of graph-based semi-supervised classification, and propose Hierarchical Multi Graph Convolutional Network (HMGCN), a novel Deep Learning architecture to tackle this problem. We construct three kinds of connectivity matrices to capture different kinds of semantic correlations between entities. A recursive regularization is proposed to model the subClassOf relations between types in given type hierarchy. Extensive experiments with two large-scale public datasets show that our proposed method significantly outperforms four state-of-the-art methods.
Recently we proposed the Span Attribute Tagging (SAT) Model to infer clinical entities (e.g., symptoms) and their properties (e.g., duration). It tackles the challenge of large label space and limited training data using a hierarchical two-stage approach that identifies the span of interest in a tagging step and assigns labels to the span in a classification step. We extend the SAT model to jointly infer not only entities and their properties but also relations between them. Most relation extraction models restrict inferring relations between tokens within a few neighboring sentences, mainly to avoid high computational complexity. In contrast, our proposed Relation-SAT (R-SAT) model is computationally efficient and can infer relations over the entire conversation, spanning an average duration of 10 minutes. We evaluate our model on a corpus of clinical conversations. When the entities are given, the R-SAT outperforms baselines in identifying relations between symptoms and their properties by about 32{\%} (0.82 vs 0.62 F-score) and by about 50{\%} (0.60 vs 0.41 F-score) on medications and their properties. On the more difficult task of jointly inferring entities and relations, the R-SAT model achieves a performance of 0.34 and 0.45 for symptoms and medications respectively, which is significantly better than 0.18 and 0.35 for the baseline model. The contributions of different components of the model are quantified using ablation analysis.
Despite great scalability on large data and their ability to understand correlations between topics, spectral topic models have not been widely used due to the absence of reliability in real data and lack of practical implementations. This paper aims to solidify the foundations of spectral topic inference and provide a practical implementation for anchor-based topic modeling. Beginning with vocabulary curation, we scrutinize every single inference step with other viable options. We also evaluate our matrix-based approach against popular alternatives including a tensor-based spectral method as well as probabilistic algorithms. Our quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate the power of Rectified Anchor Word algorithm in various real datasets, providing a complete guide to practical correlated topic modeling.
Management of collaborative documents can be difficult, given the profusion of edits and comments that multiple authors make during a document{'}s evolution. Reliably modeling the relationship between edits and comments is a crucial step towards helping the user keep track of a document in flux. A number of authoring tasks, such as categorizing and summarizing edits, detecting completed to-dos, and visually rearranging comments could benefit from such a contribution. Thus, in this paper we explore the relationship between comments and edits by defining two novel, related tasks: Comment Ranking and Edit Anchoring. We begin by collecting a dataset with more than half a million comment-edit pairs based on Wikipedia revision histories. We then propose a hierarchical multi-layer deep neural-network to model the relationship between edits and comments. Our architecture tackles both Comment Ranking and Edit Anchoring tasks by encoding specific edit actions such as additions and deletions, while also accounting for document context. In a number of evaluation settings, our experimental results show that our approach outperforms several strong baselines significantly. We are able to achieve a precision@1 of 71.0{\%} and a precision@3 of 94.4{\%} for Comment Ranking, while we achieve 74.4{\%} accuracy on Edit Anchoring.
Recently, there has been a great interest in the development of small and accurate neural networks that run entirely on devices such as mobile phones, smart watches and IoT. This enables user privacy, consistent user experience and low latency. Although a wide range of applications have been targeted from wake word detection to short text classification, yet there are no on-device networks for long text classification. We propose a novel projection attention neural network PRADO that combines trainable projections with attention and convolutions. We evaluate our approach on multiple large document text classification tasks. Our results show the effectiveness of the trainable projection model in finding semantically similar phrases and reaching high performance while maintaining compact size. Using this approach, we train tiny neural networks just 200 Kilobytes in size that improve over prior CNN and LSTM models and achieve near state of the art performance on multiple long document classification tasks. We also apply our model for transfer learning, show its robustness and ability to further improve the performance in limited data scenarios.
Current neural query auto-completion (QAC) systems rely on character-level language models, but they slow down when queries are long. We present how to utilize subword language models for the fast and accurate generation of query completion candidates. Representing queries with subwords shorten a decoding length significantly. To deal with issues coming from introducing subword language model, we develop a retrace algorithm and a reranking method by approximate marginalization. As a result, our model achieves up to 2.5 times faster while maintaining a similar quality of generated results compared to the character-level baseline. Also, we propose a new evaluation metric, mean recoverable length (MRL), measuring how many upcoming characters the model could complete correctly. It provides more explicit meaning and eliminates the need for prefix length sampling for existing rank-based metrics. Moreover, we performed a comprehensive analysis with ablation study to figure out the importance of each component.
Symptom diagnosis is a challenging yet profound problem in natural language processing. Most previous research focus on investigating the standard electronic medical records for symptom diagnosis, while the dialogues between doctors and patients that contain more rich information are not well studied. In this paper, we first construct a dialogue symptom diagnosis dataset based on an online medical forum with a large amount of dialogues between patients and doctors. Then, we provide some benchmark models on this dataset to boost the research of dialogue symptom diagnosis. In order to further enhance the performance of symptom diagnosis over dialogues, we propose a global attention mechanism to capture more symptom related information, and build a symptom graph to model the associations between symptoms rather than treating each symptom independently. Experimental results show that both the global attention and symptom graph are effective to boost dialogue symptom diagnosis. In particular, our proposed model achieves the state-of-the-art performance on the constructed dataset.
Counterfactual reasoning requires predicting how alternative events, contrary to what actually happened, might have resulted in different outcomes. Despite being considered a necessary component of AI-complete systems, few resources have been developed for evaluating counterfactual reasoning in narratives. In this paper, we propose Counterfactual Story Rewriting: given an original story and an intervening counterfactual event, the task is to minimally revise the story to make it compatible with the given counterfactual event. Solving this task will require deep understanding of causal narrative chains and counterfactual invariance, and integration of such story reasoning capabilities into conditional language generation models. We present TIMETRAVEL, a new dataset of 29,849 counterfactual rewritings, each with the original story, a counterfactual event, and human-generated revision of the original story compatible with the counterfactual event. Additionally, we include 81,407 counterfactual {``}branches{''} without a rewritten storyline to support future work on semi- or un-supervised approaches to counterfactual story rewriting. Finally, we evaluate the counterfactual rewriting capacities of several competitive baselines based on pretrained language models, and assess whether common overlap and model-based automatic metrics for text generation correlate well with human scores for counterfactual rewriting.
We propose LaserTagger - a sequence tagging approach that casts text generation as a text editing task. Target texts are reconstructed from the inputs using three main edit operations: keeping a token, deleting it, and adding a phrase before the token. To predict the edit operations, we propose a novel model, which combines a BERT encoder with an autoregressive Transformer decoder. This approach is evaluated on English text on four tasks: sentence fusion, sentence splitting, abstractive summarization, and grammar correction. LaserTagger achieves new state-of-the-art results on three of these tasks, performs comparably to a set of strong seq2seq baselines with a large number of training examples, and outperforms them when the number of examples is limited. Furthermore, we show that at inference time tagging can be more than two orders of magnitude faster than comparable seq2seq models, making it more attractive for running in a live environment.
Generating intriguing question is a key step towards building human-like open-domain chatbots. Although some recent works have focused on this task, compared with questions raised by humans, significant gaps remain in maintaining semantic coherence with post, which may result in generating dull or deviated questions. We observe that the answer has strong semantic coherence to its question and post, which can be used to guide question generation. Thus, we devise two methods to further enhance semantic coherence between post and question under the guidance of answer. First, the coherence score between generated question and answer is used as the reward function in a reinforcement learning framework, to encourage the cases that are consistent with the answer in semantic. Second, we incorporate adversarial training to explicitly control question generation in the direction of question-answer coherence. Extensive experiments show that our two methods outperform state-of-the-art baseline algorithms with large margins in raising semantic coherent questions.
Automatic news comment generation is beneficial for real applications but has not attracted enough attention from the research community. In this paper, we propose a {``}read-attend-comment{''} procedure for news comment generation and formalize the procedure with a reading network and a generation network. The reading network comprehends a news article and distills some important points from it, then the generation network creates a comment by attending to the extracted discrete points and the news title. We optimize the model in an end-to-end manner by maximizing a variational lower bound of the true objective using the back-propagation algorithm. Experimental results on two public datasets indicate that our model can significantly outperform existing methods in terms of both automatic evaluation and human judgment.
Text generation is among the most fundamental tasks in natural language processing. In this paper, we propose a text generation model that learns semantics and structural features simultaneously. This model captures structural features by a sequential variational autoencoder component and leverages a topic modeling component based on Gaussian distribution to enhance the recognition of text semantics. To make the reconstructed text more coherent to the topics, the model further adapts the encoder of the topic modeling component for a discriminator. The results of experiments over several datasets demonstrate that our model outperforms several states of the art models in terms of text perplexity and topic coherence. Moreover, the latent representations learned by our model is superior to others in a text classification task. Finally, given the input texts, our model can generate meaningful texts which hold similar structures but under different topics.
Vision-and-language reasoning requires an understanding of visual concepts, language semantics, and, most importantly, the alignment and relationships between these two modalities. We thus propose the LXMERT (Learning Cross-Modality Encoder Representations from Transformers) framework to learn these vision-and-language connections. In LXMERT, we build a large-scale Transformer model that consists of three encoders: an object relationship encoder, a language encoder, and a cross-modality encoder. Next, to endow our model with the capability of connecting vision and language semantics, we pre-train the model with large amounts of image-and-sentence pairs, via five diverse representative pre-training tasks: masked language modeling, masked object prediction (feature regression and label classification), cross-modality matching, and image question answering. These tasks help in learning both intra-modality and cross-modality relationships. After fine-tuning from our pre-trained parameters, our model achieves the state-of-the-art results on two visual question answering datasets (i.e., VQA and GQA). We also show the generalizability of our pre-trained cross-modality model by adapting it to a challenging visual-reasoning task, NLVR2, and improve the previous best result by 22{\%} absolute (54{\%} to 76{\%}). Lastly, we demonstrate detailed ablation studies to prove that both our novel model components and pre-training strategies significantly contribute to our strong results. Code and pre-trained models publicly available at: https://github.com/airsplay/lxmert
The phrase grounding task aims to ground each entity mention in a given caption of an image to a corresponding region in that image. Although there are clear dependencies between how different mentions of the same caption should be grounded, previous structured prediction methods that aim to capture such dependencies need to resort to approximate inference or non-differentiable losses. In this paper, we formulate phrase grounding as a sequence labeling task where we treat candidate regions as potential labels, and use neural chain Conditional Random Fields (CRFs) to model dependencies among regions for adjacent mentions. In contrast to standard sequence labeling tasks, the phrase grounding task is defined such that there may be multiple correct candidate regions. To address this multiplicity of gold labels, we define so-called Soft-Label Chain CRFs, and present an algorithm that enables convenient end-to-end training. Our method establishes a new state-of-the-art on phrase grounding on the Flickr30k Entities dataset. Analysis shows that our model benefits both from the entity dependencies captured by the CRF and from the soft-label training regime. Our code is available at \url{github.com/liujch1998/SoftLabelCCRF}
Grounding a pronoun to a visual object it refers to requires complex reasoning from various information sources, especially in conversational scenarios. For example, when people in a conversation talk about something all speakers can see, they often directly use pronouns (e.g., it) to refer to it without previous introduction. This fact brings a huge challenge for modern natural language understanding systems, particularly conventional context-based pronoun coreference models. To tackle this challenge, in this paper, we formally define the task of visual-aware pronoun coreference resolution (PCR) and introduce VisPro, a large-scale dialogue PCR dataset, to investigate whether and how the visual information can help resolve pronouns in dialogues. We then propose a novel visual-aware PCR model, VisCoref, for this task and conduct comprehensive experiments and case studies on our dataset. Results demonstrate the importance of the visual information in this PCR case and show the effectiveness of the proposed model.
Multimodal semantic comprehension has attracted increasing research interests recently such as visual question answering and caption generation. However, due to the data limitation, fine-grained semantic comprehension has not been well investigated, which requires to capture semantic details of multimodal contents. In this work, we introduce {``}YouMakeup{''}, a large-scale multimodal instructional video dataset to support fine-grained semantic comprehension research in specific domain. YouMakeup contains 2,800 videos from YouTube, spanning more than 420 hours in total. Each video is annotated with a sequence of natural language descriptions for instructional steps, grounded in temporal video range and spatial facial areas. The annotated steps in a video involve subtle difference in actions, products and regions, which requires fine-grained understanding and reasoning both temporally and spatially. In order to evaluate models{'} ability for fined-grained comprehension, we further propose two groups of tasks including generation tasks and visual question answering from different aspects. We also establish a baseline of step caption generation for future comparison. The dataset will be publicly available at https://github. com/AIM3-RUC/YouMakeup to support research investigation in fine-grained semantic comprehension.
In this paper, we focus on natural language video localization: localizing (ie, grounding) a natural language description in a long and untrimmed video sequence. All currently published models for addressing this problem can be categorized into two types: (i) top-down approach: it does classification and regression for a set of pre-cut video segment candidates; (ii) bottom-up approach: it directly predicts probabilities for each video frame as the temporal boundaries (ie, start and end time point). However, both two approaches suffer several limitations: the former is computation-intensive for densely placed candidates, while the latter has trailed the performance of the top-down counterpart thus far. To this end, we propose a novel dense bottom-up framework: DEnse Bottom-Up Grounding (DEBUG). DEBUG regards all frames falling in the ground truth segment as foreground, and each foreground frame regresses the unique distances from its location to bi-directional ground truth boundaries. Extensive experiments on three challenging benchmarks (TACoS, Charades-STA, and ActivityNet Captions) show that DEBUG is able to match the speed of bottom-up models while surpassing the performance of the state-of-the-art top-down models.
Everyone makes mistakes. So do human annotators when curating labels for named entity recognition (NER). Such label mistakes might hurt model training and interfere model comparison. In this study, we dive deep into one of the widely-adopted NER benchmark datasets, CoNLL03 NER. We are able to identify label mistakes in about 5.38{\%} test sentences, which is a significant ratio considering that the state-of-the-art test F1 score is already around 93{\%}. Therefore, we manually correct these label mistakes and form a cleaner test set. Our re-evaluation of popular models on this corrected test set leads to more accurate assessments, compared to those on the original test set. More importantly, we propose a simple yet effective framework, CrossWeigh, to handle label mistakes during NER model training. Specifically, it partitions the training data into several folds and train independent NER models to identify potential mistakes in each fold. Then it adjusts the weights of training data accordingly to train the final NER model. Extensive experiments demonstrate significant improvements of plugging various NER models into our proposed framework on three datasets. All implementations and corrected test set are available at our Github repo https://github.com/ZihanWangKi/CrossWeigh.
Most state-of-the-art models for named entity recognition (NER) rely on the availability of large amounts of labeled data, making them challenging to extend to new, lower-resourced languages. However, there are now many proposed solutions to this problem involving either cross-lingual transfer learning, which learns from other highly resourced languages, or active learning, which efficiently selects effective training data based on model predictions. In this paper, we ask the question: given this recent progress, and some amount of human annotation, what is the most effective method for efficiently creating high-quality entity recognizers in under-resourced languages? Based on extensive experimentation using both simulated and real human annotation, we settle on a recipe of starting with a cross-lingual transferred model, then performing targeted annotation of only uncertain entity spans in the target language, minimizing annotator effort. Results demonstrate that cross-lingual transfer is a powerful tool when very little data can be annotated, but an entity-targeted annotation strategy can achieve competitive accuracy quickly, with just one-tenth of training data.
This paper studies keyphrase extraction in real-world scenarios where documents are from diverse domains and have variant content quality. We curate and release OpenKP, a large scale open domain keyphrase extraction dataset with near one hundred thousand web documents and expert keyphrase annotations. To handle the variations of domain and content quality, we develop BLING-KPE, a neural keyphrase extraction model that goes beyond language understanding using visual presentations of documents and weak supervision from search queries. Experimental results on OpenKP confirm the effectiveness of BLING-KPE and the contributions of its neural architecture, visual features, and search log weak supervision. Zero-shot evaluations on DUC-2001 demonstrate the improved generalization ability of learning from the open domain data compared to a specific domain.
Knowledge graphs are structured representations of real world facts. However, they typically contain only a small subset of all possible facts. Link prediction is a task of inferring missing facts based on existing ones. We propose TuckER, a relatively straightforward but powerful linear model based on Tucker decomposition of the binary tensor representation of knowledge graph triples. TuckER outperforms previous state-of-the-art models across standard link prediction datasets, acting as a strong baseline for more elaborate models. We show that TuckER is a fully expressive model, derive sufficient bounds on its embedding dimensionalities and demonstrate that several previously introduced linear models can be viewed as special cases of TuckER.
Due to the black-box nature of deep learning models, methods for explaining the models{'} results are crucial to gain trust from humans and support collaboration between AIs and humans. In this paper, we consider several model-agnostic and model-specific explanation methods for CNNs for text classification and conduct three human-grounded evaluations, focusing on different purposes of explanations: (1) revealing model behavior, (2) justifying model predictions, and (3) helping humans investigate uncertain predictions. The results highlight dissimilar qualities of the various explanation methods we consider and show the degree to which these methods could serve for each purpose.
We introduce a new task of modeling the role and function for on-line resource citations in scientific literature. By categorizing the on-line resources and analyzing the purpose of resource citations in scientific texts, it can greatly help resource search and recommendation systems to better understand and manage the scientific resources. For this novel task, we are the first to create an annotation scheme, which models the different granularity of information from a hierarchical perspective. And we construct a dataset SciRes, which includes 3,088 manually annotated resource contexts. In this paper, we propose a possible solution by using a multi-task framework to build the scientific resource classifier (SciResCLF) for jointly recognizing the role and function types. Then we use the classification results to help a scientific resource recommendation (SciResREC) task. Experiments show that our model achieves the best results on both the classification task and the recommendation task. The SciRes dataset is released for future research.
In this work, we develop methods to repurpose text classification neural networks for alternate tasks without modifying the network architecture or parameters. We propose a context based vocabulary remapping method that performs a computationally inexpensive input transformation to reprogram a victim classification model for a new set of sequences. We propose algorithms for training such an input transformation in both white box and black box settings where the adversary may or may not have access to the victim model{'}s architecture and parameters. We demonstrate the application of our model and the vulnerability of neural networks by adversarially repurposing various text-classification models including LSTM, bi-directional LSTM and CNN for alternate classification tasks.
Hashing is promising for large-scale information retrieval tasks thanks to the efficiency of distance evaluation between binary codes. Generative hashing is often used to generate hashing codes in an unsupervised way. However, existing generative hashing methods only considered the use of simple priors, like Gaussian and Bernoulli priors, which limits these methods to further improve their performance. In this paper, two mixture-prior generative models are proposed, under the objective to produce high-quality hashing codes for documents. Specifically, a Gaussian mixture prior is first imposed onto the variational auto-encoder (VAE), followed by a separate step to cast the continuous latent representation of VAE into binary code. To avoid the performance loss caused by the separate casting, a model using a Bernoulli mixture prior is further developed, in which an end-to-end training is admitted by resorting to the straight-through (ST) discrete gradient estimator. Experimental results on several benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed methods, especially the one using Bernoulli mixture priors, consistently outperform existing ones by a substantial margin.
Retrieval of relevant vectors produced by representation learning critically influences the efficiency in natural language processing (NLP) tasks. In this paper, we demonstrate an efficient method for searching vectors via a typical non-metric matching function: inner product. Our method, which constructs an approximate Inner Product Delaunay Graph (IPDG) for top-1 Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS), transforms retrieving the most suitable latent vectors into a graph search problem with great benefits of efficiency. Experiments on data representations learned for different machine learning tasks verify the outperforming effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed IPDG.
Conventional word embeddings represent words with fixed vectors, which are usually trained based on co-occurrence patterns among words. In doing so, however, the power of such representations is limited, where the same word might be functionalized separately under different syntactic relations. To address this limitation, one solution is to incorporate relational dependencies of different words into their embeddings. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a multiplex word embedding model, which can be easily extended according to various relations among words. As a result, each word has a center embedding to represent its overall semantics, and several relational embeddings to represent its relational dependencies. Compared to existing models, our model can effectively distinguish words with respect to different relations without introducing unnecessary sparseness. Moreover, to accommodate various relations, we use a small dimension for relational embeddings and our model is able to keep their effectiveness. Experiments on selectional preference acquisition and word similarity demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model, and a further study of scalability also proves that our embeddings only need 1/20 of the original embedding size to achieve better performance.
It is challenging to deploy deep neural nets on memory-constrained devices due to the explosion of numbers of parameters. Especially, the input embedding layer and Softmax layer usually dominate the memory usage in an RNN-based language model. For example, input embedding and Softmax matrices in IWSLT-2014 German-to-English data set account for more than 80{\%} of the total model parameters. To compress these embedding layers, we propose MulCode, a novel multi-way multiplicative neural compressor. MulCode learns an adaptively created matrix and its multiplicative compositions. Together with a prior weighted loss, Multicode is more effective than the state-of-the-art compression methods. On the IWSLT-2014 machine translation data set, MulCode achieved 17 times compression rate for the embedding and Softmax matrices, and when combined with quantization technique, our method can achieve 41.38 times compression rate with very little loss in performance.
This paper treats gender bias latent in word embeddings. Previous mitigation attempts rely on the operationalisation of gender bias as a projection over a linear subspace. An alternative approach is Counterfactual Data Augmentation (CDA), in which a corpus is duplicated and augmented to remove bias, e.g. by swapping all inherently-gendered words in the copy. We perform an empirical comparison of these approaches on the English Gigaword and Wikipedia, and find that whilst both successfully reduce direct bias and perform well in tasks which quantify embedding quality, CDA variants outperform projection-based methods at the task of drawing non-biased gender analogies by an average of 19{\%} across both corpora. We propose two improvements to CDA: Counterfactual Data Substitution (CDS), a variant of CDA in which potentially biased text is randomly substituted to avoid duplication, and the Names Intervention, a novel name-pairing technique that vastly increases the number of words being treated. CDA/S with the Names Intervention is the only approach which is able to mitigate indirect gender bias: following debiasing, previously biased words are significantly less clustered according to gender (cluster purity is reduced by 49{\%}), thus improving on the state-of-the-art for bias mitigation.
Recent studies have shown that word embeddings exhibit gender bias inherited from the training corpora. However, most studies to date have focused on quantifying and mitigating such bias only in English. These analyses cannot be directly extended to languages that exhibit morphological agreement on gender, such as Spanish and French. In this paper, we propose new metrics for evaluating gender bias in word embeddings of these languages and further demonstrate evidence of gender bias in bilingual embeddings which align these languages with English. Finally, we extend an existing approach to mitigate gender bias in word embedding of these languages under both monolingual and bilingual settings. Experiments on modified Word Embedding Association Test, word similarity, word translation, and word pair translation tasks show that the proposed approaches can effectively reduce the gender bias while preserving the utility of the original embeddings.
Words in different languages rarely cover the exact same semantic space. This work characterizes differences in meaning between words across languages using semantic relations that have been used to relate the meaning of English words. However, because of translation ambiguity, semantic relations are not always preserved by translation. We introduce a cross-lingual relation classifier trained only with English examples and a bilingual dictionary. Our classifier relies on a novel attention-based distillation approach to account for translation ambiguity when transferring knowledge from English to cross-lingual settings. On new English-Chinese and English-Hindi test sets, the resulting models largely outperform baselines that more naively rely on bilingual embeddings or dictionaries for cross-lingual transfer, and approach the performance of fully supervised systems on English tasks.
Contextualized word representations are able to give different representations for the same word in different contexts, and they have been shown to be effective in downstream natural language processing tasks, such as question answering, named entity recognition, and sentiment analysis. However, evaluation on word sense disambiguation (WSD) in prior work shows that using contextualized word representations does not outperform the state-of-the-art approach that makes use of non-contextualized word embeddings. In this paper, we explore different strategies of integrating pre-trained contextualized word representations and our best strategy achieves accuracies exceeding the best prior published accuracies by significant margins on multiple benchmark WSD datasets.
The ability to understand and work with numbers (numeracy) is critical for many complex reasoning tasks. Currently, most NLP models treat numbers in text in the same way as other tokens{---}they embed them as distributed vectors. Is this enough to capture numeracy? We begin by investigating the numerical reasoning capabilities of a state-of-the-art question answering model on the DROP dataset. We find this model excels on questions that require numerical reasoning, i.e., it already captures numeracy. To understand how this capability emerges, we probe token embedding methods (e.g., BERT, GloVe) on synthetic list maximum, number decoding, and addition tasks. A surprising degree of numeracy is naturally present in standard embeddings. For example, GloVe and word2vec accurately encode magnitude for numbers up to 1,000. Furthermore, character-level embeddings are even more precise{---}ELMo captures numeracy the best for all pre-trained methods{---}but BERT, which uses sub-word units, is less exact.
Context-dependent semantic parsing has proven to be an important yet challenging task. To leverage the advances in context-independent semantic parsing, we propose to perform follow-up query analysis, aiming to restate context-dependent natural language queries with contextual information. To accomplish the task, we propose STAR, a novel approach with a well-designed two-phase process. It is parser-independent and able to handle multifarious follow-up scenarios in different domains. Experiments on the FollowUp dataset show that STAR outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline by a large margin of nearly 8{\%}. The superiority on parsing results verifies the feasibility of follow-up query analysis. We also explore the extensibility of STAR on the SQA dataset, which is very promising.
We propose Text2Math, a model for semantically parsing text into math expressions. The model can be used to solve different math related problems including arithmetic word problems and equation parsing problems. Unlike previous approaches, we tackle the problem from an end-to-end structured prediction perspective where our algorithm aims to predict the complete math expression at once as a tree structure, where minimal manual efforts are involved in the process. Empirical results on benchmark datasets demonstrate the efficacy of our approach.
We focus on the cross-domain context-dependent text-to-SQL generation task. Based on the observation that adjacent natural language questions are often linguistically dependent and their corresponding SQL queries tend to overlap, we utilize the interaction history by editing the previous predicted query to improve the generation quality. Our editing mechanism views SQL as sequences and reuses generation results at the token level in a simple manner. It is flexible to change individual tokens and robust to error propagation. Furthermore, to deal with complex table structures in different domains, we employ an utterance-table encoder and a table-aware decoder to incorporate the context of the user utterance and the table schema. We evaluate our approach on the SParC dataset and demonstrate the benefit of editing compared with the state-of-the-art baselines which generate SQL from scratch. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/ryanzhumich/sparc_atis_pytorch}.
Recently, semantic role labeling (SRL) has earned a series of success with even higher performance improvements, which can be mainly attributed to syntactic integration and enhanced word representation. However, most of these efforts focus on English, while SRL on multiple languages more than English has received relatively little attention so that is kept underdevelopment. Thus this paper intends to fill the gap on multilingual SRL with special focus on the impact of syntax and contextualized word representation. Unlike existing work, we propose a novel method guided by syntactic rule to prune arguments, which enables us to integrate syntax into multilingual SRL model simply and effectively. We present a unified SRL model designed for multiple languages together with the proposed uniform syntax enhancement. Our model achieves new state-of-the-art results on the CoNLL-2009 benchmarks of all seven languages. Besides, we pose a discussion on the syntactic role among different languages and verify the effectiveness of deep enhanced representation for multilingual SRL.
We present a new approach for pretraining a bi-directional transformer model that provides significant performance gains across a variety of language understanding problems. Our model solves a cloze-style word reconstruction task, where each word is ablated and must be predicted given the rest of the text. Experiments demonstrate large performance gains on GLUE and new state of the art results on NER as well as constituency parsing benchmarks, consistent with BERT. We also present a detailed analysis of a number of factors that contribute to effective pretraining, including data domain and size, model capacity, and variations on the cloze objective.
A core problem of information retrieval (IR) is relevance matching, which is to rank documents by relevance to a user{'}s query. On the other hand, many NLP problems, such as question answering and paraphrase identification, can be considered variants of semantic matching, which is to measure the semantic distance between two pieces of short texts. While at a high level both relevance and semantic matching require modeling textual similarity, many existing techniques for one cannot be easily adapted to the other. To bridge this gap, we propose a novel model, HCAN (Hybrid Co-Attention Network), that comprises (1) a hybrid encoder module that includes ConvNet-based and LSTM-based encoders, (2) a relevance matching module that measures soft term matches with importance weighting at multiple granularities, and (3) a semantic matching module with co-attention mechanisms that capture context-aware semantic relatedness. Evaluations on multiple IR and NLP benchmarks demonstrate state-of-the-art effectiveness compared to approaches that do not exploit pretraining on external data. Extensive ablation studies suggest that relevance and semantic matching signals are complementary across many problem settings, regardless of the choice of underlying encoders.
Semantic role labeling (SRL) aims to identify the predicate-argument structure of a sentence. Inspired by the strong correlation between syntax and semantics, previous works pay much attention to improve SRL performance on exploiting syntactic knowledge, achieving significant results. Pipeline methods based on automatic syntactic trees and multi-task learning (MTL) approaches using standard syntactic trees are two common research orientations. In this paper, we adopt a simple unified span-based model for both span-based and word-based Chinese SRL as a strong baseline. Besides, we present a MTL framework that includes the basic SRL module and a dependency parser module. Different from the commonly used hard parameter sharing strategy in MTL, the main idea is to extract implicit syntactic representations from the dependency parser as external inputs for the basic SRL model. Experiments on the benchmarks of Chinese Proposition Bank 1.0 and CoNLL-2009 Chinese datasets show that our proposed framework can effectively improve the performance over the strong baselines. With the external BERT representations, our framework achieves new state-of-the-art 87.54 and 88.5 F1 scores on the two test data of the two benchmarks, respectively. In-depth analysis are conducted to gain more insights on the proposed framework and the effectiveness of syntax.
A semantic equivalence assessment is defined as a task that assesses semantic equivalence in a sentence pair by binary judgment (i.e., paraphrase identification) or grading (i.e., semantic textual similarity measurement). It constitutes a set of tasks crucial for research on natural language understanding. Recently, BERT realized a breakthrough in sentence representation learning (Devlin et al., 2019), which is broadly transferable to various NLP tasks. While BERT{'}s performance improves by increasing its model size, the required computational power is an obstacle preventing practical applications from adopting the technology. Herein, we propose to inject phrasal paraphrase relations into BERT in order to generate suitable representations for semantic equivalence assessment instead of increasing the model size. Experiments on standard natural language understanding tasks confirm that our method effectively improves a smaller BERT model while maintaining the model size. The generated model exhibits superior performance compared to a larger BERT model on semantic equivalence assessment tasks. Furthermore, it achieves larger performance gains on tasks with limited training datasets for fine-tuning, which is a property desirable for transfer learning.
On text-to-SQL generation, the input utterance usually contains lots of tokens that are related to column names or cells in the table, called \textit{table-related tokens}. These table-related tokens are troublesome for the downstream neural semantic parser because it brings complex semantics and hinders the sharing across the training examples. However, existing approaches either ignore handling these tokens before the semantic parser or simply use deterministic approaches based on string-match or word embedding similarity. In this work, we propose a more efficient approach to handle table-related tokens before the semantic parser. First, we formulate it as a sequential tagging problem and propose a two-stage anonymization model to learn the semantic relationship between tables and input utterances. Then, we leverage the implicit supervision from SQL queries by policy gradient to guide the training. Experiments demonstrate that our approach consistently improves performances of different neural semantic parsers and significantly outperforms deterministic approaches.
Semantic role labeling (SRL) involves extracting propositions (i.e. predicates and their typed arguments) from natural language sentences. State-of-the-art SRL models rely on powerful encoders (e.g., LSTMs) and do not model non-local interaction between arguments. We propose a new approach to modeling these interactions while maintaining efficient inference. Specifically, we use Capsule Networks (Sabour et al., 2017): each proposition is encoded as a tuple of \textit{capsules}, one capsule per argument type (i.e. role). These tuples serve as embeddings of entire propositions. In every network layer, the capsules interact with each other and with representations of words in the sentence. Each iteration results in updated proposition embeddings and updated predictions about the SRL structure. Our model substantially outperforms the non-refinement baseline model on all 7 CoNLL-2019 languages and achieves state-of-the-art results on 5 languages (including English) for dependency SRL. We analyze the types of mistakes corrected by the refinement procedure. For example, each role is typically (but not always) filled with at most one argument. Whereas enforcing this approximate constraint is not useful with the modern SRL system, iterative procedure corrects the mistakes by capturing this intuition in a flexible and context-sensitive way.
Programmers typically organize executable source code using high-level coding patterns or idiomatic structures such as nested loops, exception handlers and recursive blocks, rather than as individual code tokens. In contrast, state of the art (SOTA) semantic parsers still map natural language instructions to source code by building the code syntax tree one node at a time. In this paper, we introduce an iterative method to extract code idioms from large source code corpora by repeatedly collapsing most-frequent depth-2 subtrees of their syntax trees, and train semantic parsers to apply these idioms during decoding. Applying idiom-based decoding on a recent context-dependent semantic parsing task improves the SOTA by 2.2{\%} BLEU score while reducing training time by more than 50{\%}. This improved speed enables us to scale up the model by training on an extended training set that is 5$\times$ larger, to further move up the SOTA by an additional 2.3{\%} BLEU and 0.9{\%} exact match. Finally, idioms also significantly improve accuracy of semantic parsing to SQL on the ATIS-SQL dataset, when training data is limited.
Interactive programming with interleaved code snippet cells and natural language markdown is recently gaining popularity in the form of Jupyter notebooks, which accelerate prototyping and collaboration. To study code generation conditioned on a long context history, we present JuICe, a corpus of 1.5 million examples with a curated test set of 3.7K instances based on online programming assignments. Compared with existing contextual code generation datasets, JuICe provides refined human-curated data, open-domain code, and an order of magnitude more training data. Using JuICe, we train models for two tasks: (1) generation of the API call sequence in a code cell, and (2) full code cell generation, both conditioned on the NL-Code history up to a particular code cell. Experiments using current baseline code generation models show that both context and distant supervision aid in generation, and that the dataset is challenging for current systems.
As a promising paradigm, interactive semantic parsing has shown to improve both semantic parsing accuracy and user confidence in the results. In this paper, we propose a new, unified formulation of the interactive semantic parsing problem, where the goal is to design a model-based intelligent agent. The agent maintains its own state as the current predicted semantic parse, decides whether and where human intervention is needed, and generates a clarification question in natural language. A key part of the agent is a world model: it takes a percept (either an initial question or subsequent feedback from the user) and transitions to a new state. We then propose a simple yet remarkably effective instantiation of our framework, demonstrated on two text-to-SQL datasets (WikiSQL and Spider) with different state-of-the-art base semantic parsers. Compared to an existing interactive semantic parsing approach that treats the base parser as a black box, our approach solicits less user feedback but yields higher run-time accuracy.
Recent studies on AMR-to-text generation often formalize the task as a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) learning problem by converting an Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graph into a word sequences. Graph structures are further modeled into the seq2seq framework in order to utilize the structural information in the AMR graphs. However, previous approaches only consider the relations between directly connected concepts while ignoring the rich structure in AMR graphs. In this paper we eliminate such a strong limitation and propose a novel structure-aware self-attention approach to better model the relations between indirectly connected concepts in the state-of-the-art seq2seq model, i.e. the Transformer. In particular, a few different methods are explored to learn structural representations between two concepts. Experimental results on English AMR benchmark datasets show that our approach significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art with 29.66 and 31.82 BLEU scores on LDC2015E86 and LDC2017T10, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, these are the best results achieved so far by supervised models on the benchmarks.
Aspect level sentiment classification aims to identify the sentiment expressed towards an aspect given a context sentence. Previous neural network based methods largely ignore the syntax structure in one sentence. In this paper, we propose a novel target-dependent graph attention network (TD-GAT) for aspect level sentiment classification, which explicitly utilizes the dependency relationship among words. Using the dependency graph, it propagates sentiment features directly from the syntactic context of an aspect target. In our experiments, we show our method outperforms multiple baselines with GloVe embeddings. We also demonstrate that using BERT representations further substantially boosts the performance.
Targeted sentiment analysis is the task of jointly predicting target entities and their associated sentiment information. Existing research efforts mostly regard this joint task as a sequence labeling problem, building models that can capture explicit structures in the output space. However, the importance of capturing implicit global structural information that resides in the input space is largely unexplored. In this work, we argue that both types of information (implicit and explicit structural information) are crucial for building a successful targeted sentiment analysis model. Our experimental results show that properly capturing both information is able to lead to better performance than competitive existing approaches. We also conduct extensive experiments to investigate our model{'}s effectiveness and robustness.
Aspect-level sentiment classification is a crucial task for sentiment analysis, which aims to identify the sentiment polarities of specific targets in their context. The main challenge comes from multi-aspect sentences, which express multiple sentiment polarities towards different targets, resulting in overlapped feature representation. However, most existing neural models tend to utilize static pooling operation or attention mechanism to identify sentimental words, which therefore insufficient for dealing with overlapped features. To solve this problem, we propose to utilize capsule network to construct vector-based feature representation and cluster features by an EM routing algorithm. Furthermore, interactive attention mechanism is introduced in the capsule routing procedure to model the semantic relationship between aspect terms and context. The iterative routing also enables encoding sentence from a global perspective. Experimental results on three datasets show that our proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performance.
There have been a recent line of works to automatically predict the emotions of posts in social media. Existing approaches consider the posts individually and predict their emotions independently. Different from previous researches, we explore the dependence among relevant posts via the authors{'} backgrounds, since the authors with similar backgrounds, e.g., gender, location, tend to express similar emotions. However, such personal attributes are not easy to obtain in most social media websites, and it is hard to capture attributes-aware words to connect similar people. Accordingly, we propose a Neural Personal Discrimination (NPD) approach to address above challenges by determining personal attributes from posts, and connecting relevant posts with similar attributes to jointly learn their emotions. In particular, we employ adversarial discriminators to determine the personal attributes, with attention mechanisms to aggregate attributes-aware words. In this way, social correlationship among different posts can be better addressed. Experimental results show the usefulness of personal attributes, and the effectiveness of our proposed NPD approach in capturing such personal attributes with significant gains over the state-of-the-art models.
The task of unsupervised sentiment modification aims to reverse the sentiment polarity of the input text while preserving its semantic content without any parallel data. Most previous work follows a two-step process. They first separate the content from the original sentiment, and then directly generate text with the target sentiment only based on the content produced by the first step. However, the second step bears both the target sentiment addition and content reconstruction, thus resulting in a lack of specific information like proper nouns in the generated text. To remedy this, we propose a specificity-driven cascading approach in this work, which can effectively increase the specificity of the generated text and further improve content preservation. In addition, we propose a more reasonable metric to evaluate sentiment modification. The experiments show that our approach outperforms competitive baselines by a large margin, which achieves 11{\%} and 38{\%} relative improvements of the overall metric on the Yelp and Amazon datasets, respectively.
Recent work has shown that current text classification models are fragile and sensitive to simple perturbations. In this work, we propose a novel adversarial training approach, LexicalAT, to improve the robustness of current classification models. The proposed approach consists of a generator and a classifier. The generator learns to generate examples to attack the classifier while the classifier learns to defend these attacks. Considering the diversity of attacks, the generator uses a large-scale lexical knowledge base, WordNet, to generate attacking examples by replacing some words in training examples with their synonyms (e.g., sad and unhappy), neighbor words (e.g., fox and wolf), or super-superior words (e.g., chair and armchair). Due to the discrete generation step in the generator, we use policy gradient, a reinforcement learning approach, to train the two modules. Experiments show LexicalAT outperforms strong baselines and reduces test errors on various neural networks, including CNN, RNN, and BERT.
Opinionated text often involves attributes such as authorship and location that influence the sentiments expressed for different aspects. We posit that structural and semantic correspondence is both prevalent in opinionated text, especially when associated with attributes, and crucial in accurately revealing its latent aspect and sentiment structure. However, it is not recognized by existing approaches. We propose Trait, an unsupervised probabilistic model that discovers aspects and sentiments from text and associates them with different attributes. To this end, Trait infers and leverages structural and semantic correspondence using a Markov Random Field. We show empirically that by incorporating attributes explicitly Trait significantly outperforms state-of-the-art baselines both by generating attribute profiles that accord with our intuitions, as shown via visualization, and yielding topics of greater semantic cohesion.
The task of predicting fine grained user opinion based on spontaneous spoken language is a key problem arising in the development of Computational Agents as well as in the development of social network based opinion miners. Unfortunately, gathering reliable data on which a model can be trained is notoriously difficult and existing works rely only on coarsely labeled opinions. In this work we aim at bridging the gap separating fine grained opinion models already developed for written language and coarse grained models developed for spontaneous multimodal opinion mining. We take advantage of the implicit hierarchical structure of opinions to build a joint fine and coarse grained opinion model that exploits different views of the opinion expression. The resulting model shares some properties with attention-based models and is shown to provide competitive results on a recently released multimodal fine grained annotated corpus.
This paper proposes a way to improve the performance of existing algorithms for text classification in domains with strong language semantics. A proposed domain adaptation layer learns weights to combine a generic and a domain specific (DS) word embedding into a domain adapted (DA) embedding. The DA word embeddings are then used as inputs to a generic encoder + classifier framework to perform a downstream task such as classification. This adaptation layer is particularly suited to data sets that are modest in size, and which are, therefore, not ideal candidates for (re)training a deep neural network architecture. Results on binary and multi-class classification tasks using popular encoder architectures, including current state-of-the-art methods (with and without the shallow adaptation layer) show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Cross-domain sentiment classification has drawn much attention in recent years. Most existing approaches focus on learning domain-invariant representations in both the source and target domains, while few of them pay attention to the domain-specific information. Despite the non-transferability of the domain-specific information, simultaneously learning domain-dependent representations can facilitate the learning of domain-invariant representations. In this paper, we focus on aspect-level cross-domain sentiment classification, and propose to distill the domain-invariant sentiment features with the help of an orthogonal domain-dependent task, i.e. aspect detection, which is built on the aspects varying widely in different domains. We conduct extensive experiments on three public datasets and the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
Recently, neural networks have shown promising results on Document-level Aspect Sentiment Classification (DASC). However, these approaches often offer little transparency w.r.t. their inner working mechanisms and lack interpretability. In this paper, to simulating the steps of analyzing aspect sentiment in a document by human beings, we propose a new Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning (HRL) approach to DASC. This approach incorporates clause selection and word selection strategies to tackle the data noise problem in the task of DASC. First, a high-level policy is proposed to select aspect-relevant clauses and discard noisy clauses. Then, a low-level policy is proposed to select sentiment-relevant words and discard noisy words inside the selected clauses. Finally, a sentiment rating predictor is designed to provide reward signals to guide both clause and word selection. Experimental results demonstrate the impressive effectiveness of the proposed approach to DASC over the state-of-the-art baselines.
In Natural Language Understanding, the task of response generation is usually focused on responses to short texts, such as tweets or a turn in a dialog. Here we present a novel task of producing a critical response to a long argumentative text, and suggest a method based on general rebuttal arguments to address it. We do this in the context of the recently-suggested task of listening comprehension over argumentative content: given a speech on some specified topic, and a list of relevant arguments, the goal is to determine which of the arguments appear in the speech. The general rebuttals we describe here (in English) overcome the need for topic-specific arguments to be provided, by proving to be applicable for a large set of topics. This allows creating responses beyond the scope of topics for which specific arguments are available. All data collected during this work is freely available for research.
Text attributes, such as user and product information in product reviews, have been used to improve the performance of sentiment classification models. The de facto standard method is to incorporate them as additional biases in the attention mechanism, and more performance gains are achieved by extending the model architecture. In this paper, we show that the above method is the least effective way to represent and inject attributes. To demonstrate this hypothesis, unlike previous models with complicated architectures, we limit our base model to a simple BiLSTM with attention classifier, and instead focus on how and where the attributes should be incorporated in the model. We propose to represent attributes as chunk-wise importance weight matrices and consider four locations in the model (i.e., embedding, encoding, attention, classifier) to inject attributes. Experiments show that our proposed method achieves significant improvements over the standard approach and that attention mechanism is the worst location to inject attributes, contradicting prior work. We also outperform the state-of-the-art despite our use of a simple base model. Finally, we show that these representations transfer well to other tasks. Model implementation and datasets are released here: https://github.com/rktamplayo/CHIM.
Emotion cause analysis, which aims to identify the reasons behind emotions, is a key topic in sentiment analysis. A variety of neural network models have been proposed recently, however, these previous models mostly focus on the learning architecture with local textual information, ignoring the discourse and prior knowledge, which play crucial roles in human text comprehension. In this paper, we propose a new method to extract emotion cause with a hierarchical neural model and knowledge-based regularizations, which aims to incorporate discourse context information and restrain the parameters by sentiment lexicon and common knowledge. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method achieves the state-of-the-art performance on two public datasets in different languages (Chinese and English), outperforming a number of competitive baselines by at least 2.08{\%} in F-measure.
We explore the task of automatic assessment of argument quality. To that end, we actively collected 6.3k arguments, more than a factor of five compared to previously examined data. Each argument was explicitly and carefully annotated for its quality. In addition, 14k pairs of arguments were annotated independently, identifying the higher quality argument in each pair. In spite of the inherent subjective nature of the task, both annotation schemes led to surprisingly consistent results. We release the labeled datasets to the community. Furthermore, we suggest neural methods based on a recently released language model, for argument ranking as well as for argument-pair classification. In the former task, our results are comparable to state-of-the-art; in the latter task our results significantly outperform earlier methods.
Propaganda aims at influencing people{'}s mindset with the purpose of advancing a specific agenda. Previous work has addressed propaganda detection at document level, typically labelling all articles from a propagandistic news outlet as propaganda. Such noisy gold labels inevitably affect the quality of any learning system trained on them. A further issue with most existing systems is the lack of explainability. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel task: performing fine-grained analysis of texts by detecting all fragments that contain propaganda techniques as well as their type. In particular, we create a corpus of news articles manually annotated at fragment level with eighteen propaganda techniques and propose a suitable evaluation measure. We further design a novel multi-granularity neural network, and we show that it outperforms several strong BERT-based baselines.
In recent times, multi-modal analysis has been an emerging and highly sought-after field at the intersection of natural language processing, computer vision, and speech processing. The prime objective of such studies is to leverage the diversified information, (e.g., textual, acoustic and visual), for learning a model. The effective interaction among these modalities often leads to a better system in terms of performance. In this paper, we introduce a recurrent neural network based approach for the multi-modal sentiment and emotion analysis. The proposed model learns the inter-modal interaction among the participating modalities through an auto-encoder mechanism. We employ a context-aware attention module to exploit the correspondence among the neighboring utterances. We evaluate our proposed approach for five standard multi-modal affect analysis datasets. Experimental results suggest the efficacy of the proposed model for both sentiment and emotion analysis over various existing state-of-the-art systems.
Text classification has been one of the major problems in natural language processing. With the advent of deep learning, convolutional neural network (CNN) has been a popular solution to this task. However, CNNs which were first proposed for images, face many crucial challenges in the context of text processing, namely in their elementary blocks: convolution filters and max pooling. These challenges have largely been overlooked by the most existing CNN models proposed for text classification. In this paper, we present an experimental study on the fundamental blocks of CNNs in text categorization. Based on this critique, we propose Sequential Convolutional Attentive Recurrent Network (SCARN). The proposed SCARN model utilizes both the advantages of recurrent and convolutional structures efficiently in comparison to previously proposed recurrent convolutional models. We test our model on different text classification datasets across tasks like sentiment analysis and question classification. Extensive experiments establish that SCARN outperforms other recurrent convolutional architectures with significantly less parameters. Furthermore, SCARN achieves better performance compared to equally large various deep CNN and LSTM architectures.
Research in the social sciences and psychology has shown that the persuasiveness of an argument depends not only the language employed, but also on attributes of the source/communicator, the audience, and the appropriateness and strength of the argument{'}s claims given the pragmatic and discourse context of the argument. Among these characteristics of persuasive arguments, prior work in NLP does not explicitly investigate the effect of the pragmatic and discourse context when determining argument quality. This paper presents a new dataset to initiate the study of this aspect of argumentation: it consists of a diverse collection of arguments covering 741 controversial topics and comprising over 47,000 claims. We further propose predictive models that incorporate the pragmatic and discourse context of argumentative claims and show that they outperform models that rely only on claim-specific linguistic features for predicting the perceived impact of individual claims within a particular line of argument.
We propose a method based on neural networks to identify the sentiment polarity of opinion words expressed on a specific aspect of a sentence. Although a large majority of works typically focus on leveraging the expressive power of neural networks in handling this task, we explore the possibility of integrating dependency trees with neural networks for representation learning. To this end, we present a convolution over a dependency tree (CDT) model which exploits a Bi-directional Long Short Term Memory (Bi-LSTM) to learn representations for features of a sentence, and further enhance the embeddings with a graph convolutional network (GCN) which operates directly on the dependency tree of the sentence. Our approach propagates both contextual and dependency information from opinion words to aspect words, offering discriminative properties for supervision. Experimental results ranks our approach as the new state-of-the-art in aspect-based sentiment classification.
Many Data Augmentation (DA) methods have been proposed for neural machine translation. Existing works measure the superiority of DA methods in terms of their performance on a specific test set, but we find that some DA methods do not exhibit consistent improvements across translation tasks. Based on the observation, this paper makes an initial attempt to answer a fundamental question: what benefits, which are consistent across different methods and tasks, does DA in general obtain? Inspired by recent theoretic advances in deep learning, the paper understands DA from two perspectives towards the generalization ability of a model: input sensitivity and prediction margin, which are defined independent of specific test set thereby may lead to findings with relatively low variance. Extensive experiments show that relatively consistent benefits across five DA methods and four translation tasks are achieved regarding both perspectives.
Previous work on neural noisy channel modeling relied on latent variable models that incrementally process the source and target sentence. This makes decoding decisions based on partial source prefixes even though the full source is available. We pursue an alternative approach based on standard sequence to sequence models which utilize the entire source. These models perform remarkably well as channel models, even though they have neither been trained on, nor designed to factor over incomplete target sentences. Experiments with neural language models trained on billions of words show that noisy channel models can outperform a direct model by up to 3.2 BLEU on WMT{'}17 German-English translation. We evaluate on four language-pairs and our channel models consistently outperform strong alternatives such right-to-left reranking models and ensembles of direct models.
Pretrained language models are promising particularly for low-resource languages as they only require unlabelled data. However, training existing models requires huge amounts of compute, while pretrained cross-lingual models often underperform on low-resource languages. We propose Multi-lingual language model Fine-Tuning (MultiFiT) to enable practitioners to train and fine-tune language models efficiently in their own language. In addition, we propose a zero-shot method using an existing pretrained cross-lingual model. We evaluate our methods on two widely used cross-lingual classification datasets where they outperform models pretrained on orders of magnitude more data and compute. We release all models and code.
Due to the unparallelizable nature of the autoregressive factorization, AutoRegressive Translation (ART) models have to generate tokens sequentially during decoding and thus suffer from high inference latency. Non-AutoRegressive Translation (NART) models were proposed to reduce the inference time, but could only achieve inferior translation accuracy. In this paper, we proposed a novel approach to leveraging the hints from hidden states and word alignments to help the training of NART models. The results achieve significant improvement over previous NART models for the WMT14 En-De and De-En datasets and are even comparable to a strong LSTM-based ART baseline but one order of magnitude faster in inference.
This paper explores the task of leveraging typology in the context of cross-lingual dependency parsing. While this linguistic information has shown great promise in pre-neural parsing, results for neural architectures have been mixed. The aim of our investigation is to better understand this state-of-the-art. Our main findings are as follows: 1) The benefit of typological information is derived from coarsely grouping languages into syntactically-homogeneous clusters rather than from learning to leverage variations along individual typological dimensions in a compositional manner; 2) Typology consistent with the actual corpus statistics yields better transfer performance; 3) Typological similarity is only a rough proxy of cross-lingual transferability with respect to parsing.
This paper investigates the problem of learning cross-lingual representations in a contextual space. We propose Cross-Lingual BERT Transformation (CLBT), a simple and efficient approach to generate cross-lingual contextualized word embeddings based on publicly available pre-trained BERT models (Devlin et al., 2018). In this approach, a linear transformation is learned from contextual word alignments to align the contextualized embeddings independently trained in different languages. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on zero-shot cross-lingual transfer parsing. Experiments show that our embeddings substantially outperform the previous state-of-the-art that uses static embeddings. We further compare our approach with XLM (Lample and Conneau, 2019), a recently proposed cross-lingual language model trained with massive parallel data, and achieve highly competitive results.
The key to multilingual grammar induction is to couple grammar parameters of different languages together by exploiting the similarity between languages. Previous work relies on linguistic phylogenetic knowledge to specify similarity between languages. In this work, we propose a novel universal grammar induction approach that represents language identities with continuous vectors and employs a neural network to predict grammar parameters based on the representation. Without any prior linguistic phylogenetic knowledge, we automatically capture similarity between languages with the vector representations and softly tie the grammar parameters of different languages. In our experiments, we apply our approach to 15 languages across 8 language families and subfamilies in the Universal Dependency Treebank dataset, and we observe substantial performance gain on average over monolingual and multilingual baselines.
Many of the world{'}s languages employ grammatical gender on the lexeme. For instance, in Spanish, house {``}casa{''} is feminine, whereas the word for paper {``}papel{''} is masculine. To a speaker of a genderless language, this categorization seems to exist with neither rhyme nor reason. But, is the association of nouns to gender classes truly arbitrary? In this work, we present the first large-scale investigation of the arbitrariness of gender assignment that uses canonical correlation analysis as a method for correlating the gender of inanimate nouns with their lexical semantic meaning. We find that the gender systems of 18 languages exhibit a significant correlation with an externally grounded definition of lexical semantics.
Data-driven statistical Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques leverage large amounts of language data to build models that can understand language. However, most language data reflect the public discourse at the time the data was produced, and hence NLP models are susceptible to learning incidental associations around named referents at a particular point in time, in addition to general linguistic meaning. An NLP system designed to model notions such as sentiment and toxicity should ideally produce scores that are independent of the identity of such entities mentioned in text and their social associations. For example, in a general purpose sentiment analysis system, a phrase such as I hate Katy Perry should be interpreted as having the same sentiment as I hate Taylor Swift. Based on this idea, we propose a generic evaluation framework, Perturbation Sensitivity Analysis, which detects unintended model biases related to named entities, and requires no new annotations or corpora. We demonstrate the utility of this analysis by employing it on two different NLP models {---} a sentiment model and a toxicity model {---} applied on online comments in English language from four different genres.
In this paper, we pose the question: do people talk about women and men in different ways? We introduce two datasets and a novel integration of approaches for automatically inferring gender associations from language, discovering coherent word clusters, and labeling the clusters for the semantic concepts they represent. The datasets allow us to compare how people write about women and men in two different settings {--} one set draws from celebrity news and the other from student reviews of computer science professors. We demonstrate that there are large-scale differences in the ways that people talk about women and men and that these differences vary across domains. Human evaluations show that our methods significantly outperform strong baselines.
Official reports of hate crimes in the US are under-reported relative to the actual number of such incidents. Further, despite statistical approximations, there are no official reports from a large number of US cities regarding incidents of hate. Here, we first demonstrate that event extraction and multi-instance learning, applied to a corpus of local news articles, can be used to predict instances of hate crime. We then use the trained model to detect incidents of hate in cities for which the FBI lacks statistics. Lastly, we train models on predicting homicide and kidnapping, compare the predictions to FBI reports, and establish that incidents of hate are indeed under-reported, compared to other types of crimes, in local press.
Recognizing affective events that trigger positive or negative sentiment has a wide range of natural language processing applications but remains a challenging problem mainly because the polarity of an event is not necessarily predictable from its constituent words. In this paper, we propose to propagate affective polarity using discourse relations. Our method is simple and only requires a very small seed lexicon and a large raw corpus. Our experiments using Japanese data show that our method learns affective events effectively without manually labeled data. It also improves supervised learning results when labeled data are small.
Syntactic relations are broadly used in many NLP tasks. For event detection, syntactic relation representations based on dependency tree can better capture the interrelations between candidate trigger words and related entities than sentence representations. But, existing studies only use first-order syntactic relations (i.e., the arcs) in dependency trees to identify trigger words. For this reason, this paper proposes a new method for event detection, which uses a dependency tree based graph convolution network with aggregative attention to explicitly model and aggregate multi-order syntactic representations in sentences. Experimental comparison with state-of-the-art baselines shows the superiority of the proposed method.
Scalar implicatures are language features that imply the negation of stronger statements, e.g., {``}She was married twice{''} typically implicates that she was not married thrice. In this paper we discuss the importance of scalar implicatures in the context of textual information extraction. We investigate how textual features can be used to predict whether a given text segment mentions all objects standing in a certain relationship with a certain subject. Preliminary results on Wikipedia indicate that this prediction is feasible, and yields informative assessments.
Existing event extraction methods classify each argument role independently, ignoring the conceptual correlations between different argument roles. In this paper, we propose a Hierarchical Modular Event Argument Extraction (HMEAE) model, to provide effective inductive bias from the concept hierarchy of event argument roles. Specifically, we design a neural module network for each basic unit of the concept hierarchy, and then hierarchically compose relevant unit modules with logical operations into a role-oriented modular network to classify a specific argument role. As many argument roles share the same high-level unit module, their correlation can be utilized to extract specific event arguments better. Experiments on real-world datasets show that HMEAE can effectively leverage useful knowledge from the concept hierarchy and significantly outperform the state-of-the-art baselines. The source code can be obtained from https://github.com/thunlp/HMEAE.
We examine the capabilities of a unified, multi-task framework for three information extraction tasks: named entity recognition, relation extraction, and event extraction. Our framework (called DyGIE++) accomplishes all tasks by enumerating, refining, and scoring text spans designed to capture local (within-sentence) and global (cross-sentence) context. Our framework achieves state-of-the-art results across all tasks, on four datasets from a variety of domains. We perform experiments comparing different techniques to construct span representations. Contextualized embeddings like BERT perform well at capturing relationships among entities in the same or adjacent sentences, while dynamic span graph updates model long-range cross-sentence relationships. For instance, propagating span representations via predicted coreference links can enable the model to disambiguate challenging entity mentions. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/dwadden/dygiepp and can be easily adapted for new tasks or datasets.
Implicit discourse relation classification is one of the most difficult tasks in discourse parsing. Previous studies have generally focused on extracting better representations of the relational arguments. In order to solve the task, it is however additionally necessary to capture what events are expected to cause or follow each other. Current discourse relation classifiers fall short in this respect. We here show that this shortcoming can be effectively addressed by using the bidirectional encoder representation from transformers (BERT) proposed by Devlin et al. (2019), which were trained on a next-sentence prediction task, and thus encode a representation of likely next sentences. The BERT-based model outperforms the current state of the art in 11-way classification by 8{\%} points on the standard PDTB dataset. Our experiments also demonstrate that the model can be successfully ported to other domains: on the BioDRB dataset, the model outperforms the state of the art system around 15{\%} points.
Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) parsing is crucial for many downstream NLP tasks that require a discourse structure for a text. Most of the previous RST parsers have been based on supervised learning approaches. That is, they require an annotated corpus of sufficient size and quality, and heavily rely on the language and domain dependent corpus. In this paper, we present two language-independent unsupervised RST parsing methods based on dynamic programming. The first one builds the optimal tree in terms of a dissimilarity score function that is defined for splitting a text span into smaller ones. The second builds the optimal tree in terms of a similarity score function that is defined for merging two adjacent spans into a large one. Experimental results on English and German RST treebanks showed that our parser based on span merging achieved the best score, around 0.8 F$_1$ score, which is close to the scores of the previous supervised parsers.
We apply BERT to coreference resolution, achieving a new state of the art on the GAP (+11.5 F1) and OntoNotes (+3.9 F1) benchmarks. A qualitative analysis of model predictions indicates that, compared to ELMo and BERT-base, BERT-large is particularly better at distinguishing between related but distinct entities (e.g., President and CEO), but that there is still room for improvement in modeling document-level context, conversations, and mention paraphrasing. We will release all code and trained models upon publication.
Generating a long, coherent text such as a paragraph requires a high-level control of different levels of relations between sentences (e.g., tense, coreference). We call such a logical connection between sentences as a (paragraph) flow. In order to produce a coherent flow of text, we explore two forms of intersentential relations in a paragraph: one is a human-created linguistical relation that forms a structure (e.g., discourse tree) and the other is a relation from latent representation learned from the sentences themselves. Our two proposed models incorporate each form of relations into document-level language models: the former is a supervised model that jointly learns a language model as well as discourse relation prediction, and the latter is an unsupervised model that is hierarchically conditioned by a recurrent neural network (RNN) over the latent information. Our proposed models with both forms of relations outperform the baselines in partially conditioned paragraph generation task. Our codes and data are publicly available.
We propose new BERT-based methods for recognizing event causality such as {``}smoke cigarettes{''} {--}{\textgreater} {``}die of lung cancer{''} written in web texts. In our methods, we grasp each annotator{'}s policy by training multiple classifiers, each of which predicts the labels given by a single annotator, and combine the resulting classifiers{'} outputs to predict the final labels determined by majority vote. Furthermore, we investigate the effect of supplying background knowledge to our classifiers. Since BERT models are pre-trained with a large corpus, some sort of background knowledge for event causality may be learned during pre-training. Our experiments with a Japanese dataset suggest that this is actually the case: Performance improved when we pre-trained the BERT models with web texts containing a large number of event causalities instead of Wikipedia articles or randomly sampled web texts. However, this effect was limited. Therefore, we further improved performance by simply adding texts related to an input causality candidate as background knowledge to the input of the BERT models. We believe these findings indicate a promising future research direction.
Memory neurons of long short-term memory (LSTM) networks encode and process information in powerful yet mysterious ways. While there has been work to analyze their behavior in carrying low-level information such as linguistic properties, how they directly contribute to label prediction remains unclear. We find inspiration from biologists and study the affinity between individual neurons and labels, propose a novel metric to quantify the sensitivity of neurons to each label, and conduct experiments to show the validity of our proposed metric. We discover that some neurons are trained to specialize on a subset of labels, and while dropping an arbitrary neuron has little effect on the overall accuracy of the model, dropping label-specialized neurons predictably and significantly degrades prediction accuracy on the associated label. We further examine the consistency of neuron-label affinity across different models. These observations provide insight into the inner mechanisms of LSTMs.
Recurrent neural networks can learn to predict upcoming words remarkably well on average; in syntactically complex contexts, however, they often assign unexpectedly high probabilities to ungrammatical words. We investigate to what extent these shortcomings can be mitigated by increasing the size of the network and the corpus on which it is trained. We find that gains from increasing network size are minimal beyond a certain point. Likewise, expanding the training corpus yields diminishing returns; we estimate that the training corpus would need to be unrealistically large for the models to match human performance. A comparison to GPT and BERT, Transformer-based models trained on billions of words, reveals that these models perform even more poorly than our LSTMs in some constructions. Our results make the case for more data efficient architectures.
Representational Similarity Analysis (RSA) is a technique developed by neuroscientists for comparing activity patterns of different measurement modalities (e.g., fMRI, electrophysiology, behavior). As a framework, RSA has several advantages over existing approaches to interpretation of language encoders based on probing or diagnostic classification: namely, it does not require large training samples, is not prone to overfitting, and it enables a more transparent comparison between the representational geometries of different models and modalities. We demonstrate the utility of RSA by establishing a previously unknown correspondence between widely-employed pretrained language encoders and human processing difficulty via eye-tracking data, showcasing its potential in the interpretability toolbox for neural models.
Domain-specific training typically makes NLP systems work better. We show that this extends to cognitive modeling as well by relating the states of a neural phrase-structure parser to electrophysiological measures from human participants. These measures were recorded as participants listened to a spoken recitation of the same literary text that was supplied as input to the neural parser. Given more training data, the system derives a better cognitive model {---} but only when the training examples come from the same textual genre. This finding is consistent with the idea that humans adapt syntactic expectations to particular genres during language comprehension (Kaan and Chun, 2018; Branigan and Pickering, 2017).
Feature norm datasets of human conceptual knowledge, collected in surveys of human volunteers, yield highly interpretable models of word meaning and play an important role in neurolinguistic research on semantic cognition. However, these datasets are limited in size due to practical obstacles associated with exhaustively listing properties for a large number of words. In contrast, the development of distributional modelling techniques and the availability of vast text corpora have allowed researchers to construct effective vector space models of word meaning over large lexicons. However, this comes at the cost of interpretable, human-like information about word meaning. We propose a method for mapping human property knowledge onto a distributional semantic space, which adapts the word2vec architecture to the task of modelling concept features. Our approach gives a measure of concept and feature affinity in a single semantic space, which makes for easy and efficient ranking of candidate human-derived semantic properties for arbitrary words. We compare our model with a previous approach, and show that it performs better on several evaluation tasks. Finally, we discuss how our method could be used to develop efficient sampling techniques to extend existing feature norm datasets in a reliable way.
While models for Visual Question Answering (VQA) have steadily improved over the years, interacting with one quickly reveals that these models lack consistency. For instance, if a model answers {``}red{''} to {``}What color is the balloon?{''}, it might answer {``}no{''} if asked, {``}Is the balloon red?{''}. These responses violate simple notions of entailment and raise questions about how effectively VQA models ground language. In this work, we introduce a dataset, ConVQA, and metrics that enable quantitative evaluation of consistency in VQA. For a given observable fact in an image (e.g. the balloon{'}s color), we generate a set of logically consistent question-answer (QA) pairs (e.g. Is the balloon red?) and also collect a human-annotated set of common-sense based consistent QA pairs (e.g. Is the balloon the same color as tomato sauce?). Further, we propose a consistency-improving data augmentation module, a Consistency Teacher Module (CTM). CTM automatically generates entailed (or similar-intent) questions for a source QA pair and fine-tunes the VQA model if the VQA{'}s answer to the entailed question is consistent with the source QA pair. We demonstrate that our CTM-based training improves the consistency of VQA models on the Con-VQA datasets and is a strong baseline for further research.
Scenario-based question answering (SQA) has attracted increasing research attention. It typically requires retrieving and integrating knowledge from multiple sources, and applying general knowledge to a specific case described by a scenario. SQA widely exists in the medical, geography, and legal domains{---}both in practice and in the exams. In this paper, we introduce the GeoSQA dataset. It consists of 1,981 scenarios and 4,110 multiple-choice questions in the geography domain at high school level, where diagrams (e.g., maps, charts) have been manually annotated with natural language descriptions to benefit NLP research. Benchmark results on a variety of state-of-the-art methods for question answering, textual entailment, and reading comprehension demonstrate the unique challenges presented by SQA for future research.
Theory of mind, i.e., the ability to reason about intents and beliefs of agents is an important task in artificial intelligence and central to resolving ambiguous references in natural language dialogue. In this work, we revisit the evaluation of theory of mind through question answering. We show that current evaluation methods are flawed and that existing benchmark tasks can be solved without theory of mind due to dataset biases. Based on prior work, we propose an improved evaluation protocol and dataset in which we explicitly control for data regularities via a careful examination of the answer space. We show that state-of-the-art methods which are successful on existing benchmarks fail to solve theory-of-mind tasks in our proposed approach.
BERT model has been successfully applied to open-domain QA tasks. However, previous work trains BERT by viewing passages corresponding to the same question as independent training instances, which may cause incomparable scores for answers from different passages. To tackle this issue, we propose a multi-passage BERT model to globally normalize answer scores across all passages of the same question, and this change enables our QA model find better answers by utilizing more passages. In addition, we find that splitting articles into passages with the length of 100 words by sliding window improves performance by 4{\%}. By leveraging a passage ranker to select high-quality passages, multi-passage BERT gains additional 2{\%}. Experiments on four standard benchmarks showed that our multi-passage BERT outperforms all state-of-the-art models on all benchmarks. In particular, on the OpenSQuAD dataset, our model gains 21.4{\%} EM and 21.5{\%} F1 over all non-BERT models, and 5.8{\%} EM and 6.5{\%} F1 over BERT-based models.
Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) has become enormously popular recently and has attracted a lot of attention. However, the existing reading comprehension datasets are mostly in English. In this paper, we introduce a Span-Extraction dataset for Chinese machine reading comprehension to add language diversities in this area. The dataset is composed by near 20,000 real questions annotated on Wikipedia paragraphs by human experts. We also annotated a challenge set which contains the questions that need comprehensive understanding and multi-sentence inference throughout the context. We present several baseline systems as well as anonymous submissions for demonstrating the difficulties in this dataset. With the release of the dataset, we hosted the Second Evaluation Workshop on Chinese Machine Reading Comprehension (CMRC 2018). We hope the release of the dataset could further accelerate the Chinese machine reading comprehension research. Resources are available: https://github.com/ymcui/cmrc2018
This paper studies the problem of non-factoid question answering, where the answer may span over multiple sentences. Existing solutions can be categorized into representation- and interaction-focused approaches. We combine their complementary strength, by a hybrid approach allowing multi-granular interactions, but represented at word level, enabling an easy integration with strong word-level signals. Specifically, we propose MICRON: Multigranular Interaction for Contextualizing RepresentatiON, a novel approach which derives contextualized uni-gram representation from n-grams. Our contributions are as follows: First, we enable multi-granular matches between question and answer $n$-grams. Second, by contextualizing word representation with surrounding n-grams, MICRON can naturally utilize word-based signals for query term weighting, known to be effective in information retrieval. We validate MICRON in two public non-factoid question answering datasets: WikiPassageQA and InsuranceQA, showing our model achieves the state of the art among baselines with reported performances on both datasets.
Leveraging external knowledge is an emerging trend in machine comprehension task. Previous work usually utilizes knowledge graphs such as ConceptNet as external knowledge, and extracts triples from them to enhance the initial representation of the machine comprehension context. However, such method cannot capture the structural information in the knowledge graph. To this end, we propose a Structural Knowledge Graph-aware Network(SKG) model, constructing sub-graphs for entities in the machine comprehension context. Our method dynamically updates the representation of the knowledge according to the structural information of the constructed sub-graph. Experiments show that SKG achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ReCoRD dataset.
We present a novel approach to answering sequential questions based on structured objects such as knowledge bases or tables without using a logical form as an intermediate representation. We encode tables as graphs using a graph neural network model based on the Transformer architecture. The answers are then selected from the encoded graph using a pointer network. This model is appropriate for processing conversations around structured data, where the attention mechanism that selects the answers to a question can also be used to resolve conversational references. We demonstrate the validity of this approach with competitive results on the Sequential Question Answering (SQA) task.
In this paper, we establish the effectiveness of using hard negatives, coupled with a siamese network and a suitable loss function, for the tasks of answer selection and answer triggering. We show that the choice of sampling strategy is key for achieving improved performance on these tasks. Evaluating on recent answer selection datasets - InsuranceQA, SelQA, and an internal QA dataset, we show that using hard negatives with relatively simple model architectures (bag of words and LSTM-CNN) drives significant performance gains. On InsuranceQA, this strategy alone improves over previously reported results by a minimum of 1.6 points in P@1. Using hard negatives with a Transformer encoder provides a further improvement of 2.3 points. Further, we propose to use quadruplet loss for answer triggering, with the aim of producing globally meaningful similarity scores. We show that quadruplet loss function coupled with the selection of hard negatives enables bag-of-words models to improve F1 score by 2.3 points over previous baselines, on SelQA answer triggering dataset. Our results provide key insights into answer selection and answer triggering tasks.
Question answering is an AI-complete problem, but existing datasets lack key elements of language understanding such as coreference and ellipsis resolution. We consider sequential question answering: multiple questions are asked one-by-one in a conversation between a questioner and an answerer. Answering these questions is only possible through understanding the conversation history. We introduce the task of question-in-context rewriting: given the context of a conversation{'}s history, rewrite a context-dependent into a self-contained question with the same answer. We construct, CANARD, a dataset of 40,527 questions based on QuAC (Choi et al., 2018) and train Seq2Seq models for incorporating context into standalone questions.
Machine comprehension of texts longer than a single sentence often requires coreference resolution. However, most current reading comprehension benchmarks do not contain complex coreferential phenomena and hence fail to evaluate the ability of models to resolve coreference. We present a new crowdsourced dataset containing more than 24K span-selection questions that require resolving coreference among entities in over 4.7K English paragraphs from Wikipedia. Obtaining questions focused on such phenomena is challenging, because it is hard to avoid lexical cues that shortcut complex reasoning. We deal with this issue by using a strong baseline model as an adversary in the crowdsourcing loop, which helps crowdworkers avoid writing questions with exploitable surface cues. We show that state-of-the-art reading comprehension models perform significantly worse than humans on this benchmark{---}the best model performance is 70.5 F1, while the estimated human performance is 93.4 F1.
Because it is not feasible to collect training data for every language, there is a growing interest in cross-lingual transfer learning. In this paper, we systematically explore zero-shot cross-lingual transfer learning on reading comprehension tasks with language representation model pre-trained on multi-lingual corpus. The experimental results show that with pre-trained language representation zero-shot learning is feasible, and translating the source data into the target language is not necessary and even degrades the performance. We further explore what does the model learn in zero-shot setting.
We introduce the first open-domain dataset, called QuaRTz, for reasoning about textual qualitative relationships. QuaRTz contains general qualitative statements, e.g., {``}A sunscreen with a higher SPF protects the skin longer.{''}, twinned with 3864 crowdsourced situated questions, e.g., {``}Billy is wearing sunscreen with a lower SPF than Lucy. Who will be best protected from the sun?{''}, plus annotations of the properties being compared. Unlike previous datasets, the general knowledge is textual and not tied to a fixed set of relationships, and tests a system{'}s ability to comprehend and apply textual qualitative knowledge in a novel setting. We find state-of-the-art results are substantially (20{\%}) below human performance, presenting an open challenge to the NLP community.
Reading comprehension models have been successfully applied to extractive text answers, but it is unclear how best to generalize these models to abstractive numerical answers. We enable a BERT-based reading comprehension model to perform lightweight numerical reasoning. We augment the model with a predefined set of executable {`}programs{'} which encompass simple arithmetic as well as extraction. Rather than having to learn to manipulate numbers directly, the model can pick a program and execute it. On the recent Discrete Reasoning Over Passages (DROP) dataset, designed to challenge reading comprehension models, we show a 33{\%} absolute improvement by adding shallow programs. The model can learn to predict new operations when appropriate in a math word problem setting (Roy and Roth, 2015) with very few training examples.
Answer selection is an important research problem, with applications in many areas. Previous deep learning based approaches for the task mainly adopt the Compare-Aggregate architecture that performs word-level comparison followed by aggregation. In this work, we take a departure from the popular Compare-Aggregate architecture, and instead, propose a new gated self-attention memory network for the task. Combined with a simple transfer learning technique from a large-scale online corpus, our model outperforms previous methods by a large margin, achieving new state-of-the-art results on two standard answer selection datasets: TrecQA and WikiQA.
Paraphrase generation is an interesting and challenging NLP task which has numerous practical applications. In this paper, we analyze datasets commonly used for paraphrase generation research, and show that simply parroting input sentences surpasses state-of-the-art models in the literature when evaluated on standard metrics. Our findings illustrate that a model could be seemingly adept at generating paraphrases, despite only making trivial changes to the input sentence or even none at all.
Search applications often display shortened sentences which must contain certain query terms and must fit within the space constraints of a user interface. This work introduces a new transition-based sentence compression technique developed for such settings. Our query-focused method constructs length and lexically constrained compressions in linear time, by growing a subgraph in the dependency parse of a sentence. This theoretically efficient approach achieves an 11x empirical speedup over baseline ILP methods, while better reconstructing gold constrained shortenings. Such speedups help query-focused applications, because users are measurably hindered by interface lags. Additionally, our technique does not require an ILP solver or a GPU.
Existing approaches to recipe generation are unable to create recipes for users with culinary preferences but incomplete knowledge of ingredients in specific dishes. We propose a new task of personalized recipe generation to help these users: expanding a name and incomplete ingredient details into complete natural-text instructions aligned with the user{'}s historical preferences. We attend on technique- and recipe-level representations of a user{'}s previously consumed recipes, fusing these {`}user-aware{'} representations in an attention fusion layer to control recipe text generation. Experiments on a new dataset of 180K recipes and 700K interactions show our model{'}s ability to generate plausible and personalized recipes compared to non-personalized baselines.
The neural seq2seq based question generation (QG) is prone to generating generic and undiversified questions that are poorly relevant to the given passage and target answer. In this paper, we propose two methods to address the issue. (1) By a partial copy mechanism, we prioritize words that are morphologically close to words in the input passage when generating questions; (2) By a QA-based reranker, from the n-best list of question candidates, we select questions that are preferred by both the QA and QG model. Experiments and analyses demonstrate that the proposed two methods substantially improve the relevance of generated questions to passages and answers.
Stories generated with neural language models have shown promise in grammatical and stylistic consistency. However, the generated stories are still lacking in common sense reasoning, e.g., they often contain sentences deprived of world knowledge. We propose a simple multi-task learning scheme to achieve quantitatively better common sense reasoning in language models by leveraging auxiliary training signals from datasets designed to provide common sense grounding. When combined with our two-stage fine-tuning pipeline, our method achieves improved common sense reasoning and state-of-the-art perplexity on the WritingPrompts (Fan et al., 2018) story generation dataset.
Text summarization is considered as a challenging task in the NLP community. The availability of datasets for the task of multilingual text summarization is rare, and such datasets are difficult to construct. In this work, we build an abstract text summarizer for the German language text using the state-of-the-art {``}Transformer{''} model. We propose an iterative data augmentation approach which uses synthetic data along with the real summarization data for the German language. To generate synthetic data, the Common Crawl (German) dataset is exploited, which covers different domains. The synthetic data is effective for the low resource condition and is particularly helpful for our multilingual scenario where availability of summarizing data is still a challenging issue. The data are also useful in deep learning scenarios where the neural models require a large amount of training data for utilization of its capacity. The obtained summarization performance is measured in terms of ROUGE and BLEU score. We achieve an absolute improvement of +1.5 and +16.0 in ROUGE1 F1 (R1{\_}F1) on the development and test sets, respectively, compared to the system which does not rely on data augmentation.
We present a novel approach for generating poetry automatically for the morphologically rich Finnish language by using a genetic algorithm. The approach improves the state of the art of the previous Finnish poem generators by introducing a higher degree of freedom in terms of structural creativity. Our approach is evaluated and described within the paradigm of computational creativity, where the fitness functions of the genetic algorithm are assimilated with the notion of aesthetics. The output is considered to be a poem 81.5{\%} of the time by human evaluators.
We propose SUM-QE, a novel Quality Estimation model for summarization based on BERT. The model addresses linguistic quality aspects that are only indirectly captured by content-based approaches to summary evaluation, without involving comparison with human references. SUM-QE achieves very high correlations with human ratings, outperforming simpler models addressing these linguistic aspects. Predictions of the SUM-QE model can be used for system development, and to inform users of the quality of automatically produced summaries and other types of generated text.
Generating paraphrases from given sentences involves decoding words step by step from a large vocabulary. To learn a decoder, supervised learning which maximizes the likelihood of tokens always suffers from the exposure bias. Although both reinforcement learning (RL) and imitation learning (IL) have been widely used to alleviate the bias, the lack of direct comparison leads to only a partial image on their benefits. In this work, we present an empirical study on how RL and IL can help boost the performance of generating paraphrases, with the pointer-generator as a base model. Experiments on the benchmark datasets show that (1) imitation learning is constantly better than reinforcement learning; and (2) the pointer-generator models with imitation learning outperform the state-of-the-art methods with a large margin.
Sentence position is a strong feature for news summarization, since the lead often (but not always) summarizes the key points of the article. In this paper, we show that recent neural systems excessively exploit this trend, which although powerful for many inputs, is also detrimental when summarizing documents where important content should be extracted from later parts of the article. We propose two techniques to make systems sensitive to the importance of content in different parts of the article. The first technique employs {`}unbiased{'} data; i.e., randomly shuffled sentences of the source document, to pretrain the model. The second technique uses an auxiliary ROUGE-based loss that encourages the model to distribute importance scores throughout a document by mimicking sentence-level ROUGE scores on the training data. We show that these techniques significantly improve the performance of a competitive reinforcement learning based extractive system, with the auxiliary loss being more powerful than pretraining.
Existing recurrent neural language models often fail to capture higher-level structure present in text: for example, rhyming patterns present in poetry. Much prior work on poetry generation uses manually defined constraints which are satisfied during decoding using either specialized decoding procedures or rejection sampling. The rhyming constraints themselves are typically not learned by the generator. We propose an alternate approach that uses a structured discriminator to learn a poetry generator that directly captures rhyming constraints in a generative adversarial setup. By causing the discriminator to compare poems based only on a learned similarity matrix of pairs of line ending words, the proposed approach is able to successfully learn rhyming patterns in two different English poetry datasets (Sonnet and Limerick) without explicitly being provided with any phonetic information
Question generation is a challenging task which aims to ask a question based on an answer and relevant context. The existing works suffer from the mismatching between question type and answer, i.e. generating a question with type $how$ while the answer is a personal name. We propose to automatically predict the question type based on the input answer and context. Then, the question type is fused into a seq2seq model to guide the question generation, so as to deal with the mismatching problem. We achieve significant improvement on the accuracy of question type prediction and finally obtain state-of-the-art results for question generation on both SQuAD and MARCO datasets.
Deep reinforcement learning (RL) has been a commonly-used strategy for the abstractive summarization task to address both the exposure bias and non-differentiable task issues. However, the conventional reward Rouge-L simply looks for exact n-grams matches between candidates and annotated references, which inevitably makes the generated sentences repetitive and incoherent. In this paper, instead of Rouge-L, we explore the practicability of utilizing the distributional semantics to measure the matching degrees. With distributional semantics, sentence-level evaluation can be obtained, and semantically-correct phrases can also be generated without being limited to the surface form of the reference sentences. Human judgments on Gigaword and CNN/Daily Mail datasets show that our proposed distributional semantics reward (DSR) has distinct superiority in capturing the lexical and compositional diversity of natural language.
Most deep learning approaches for text-to-SQL generation are limited to the WikiSQL dataset, which only supports very simple queries over a single table. We focus on the Spider dataset, a complex and cross-domain text-to-SQL task, which includes complex queries over multiple tables. In this paper, we propose a SQL clause-wise decoding neural architecture with a self-attention based database schema encoder to address the Spider task. Each of the clause-specific decoders consists of a set of sub-modules, which is defined by the syntax of each clause. Additionally, our model works recursively to support nested queries. When evaluated on the Spider dataset, our approach achieves 4.6{\%} and 9.8{\%} accuracy gain in the test and dev sets, respectively. In addition, we show that our model is significantly more effective at predicting complex and nested queries than previous work.
How do adjectives project from a noun to its parts? If a motorcycle is red, are its wheels red? Is a nuclear submarine{'}s captain nuclear? These questions are easy for humans to judge using our commonsense understanding of the world, but are difficult for computers. To attack this challenge, we crowdsource a set of human judgments that answer the English-language question {``}Given a whole described by an adjective, does the adjective also describe a given part?{''} We build strong baselines for this task with a classification approach. Our findings indicate that, despite the recent successes of large language models on tasks aimed to assess commonsense knowledge, these models do not greatly outperform simple word-level models based on pre-trained word embeddings. This provides evidence that the amount of commonsense knowledge encoded in these language models does not extend far beyond that already baked into the word embeddings. Our dataset will serve as a useful testbed for future research in commonsense reasoning, especially as it relates to adjectives and objects
In this work, we propose an aggregation method to combine the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformer (BERT) with a MatchLSTM layer for Sequence Matching. Given a sentence pair, we extract the output representations of it from BERT. Then we extend BERT with a MatchLSTM layer to get further interaction of the sentence pair for sequence matching tasks. Taking natural language inference as an example, we split BERT output into two parts, which is from premise sentence and hypothesis sentence. At each position of the hypothesis sentence, both the weighted representation of the premise sentence and the representation of the current token are fed into LSTM. We jointly train the aggregation layer and pre-trained layer for sequence matching. We conduct an experiment on two publicly available datasets, WikiQA and SNLI. Experiments show that our model achieves significantly improvement compared with state-of-the-art methods on both datasets.
Contextualized word embeddings have boosted many NLP tasks compared with traditional static word embeddings. However, the word with a specific sense may have different contextualized embeddings due to its various contexts. To further investigate what contextualized word embeddings capture, this paper analyzes whether they can indicate the corresponding sense definitions and proposes a general framework that is capable of explaining word meanings given contextualized word embeddings for better interpretation. The experiments show that both ELMo and BERT embeddings can be well interpreted via a readable textual form, and the findings may benefit the research community for a better understanding of what the embeddings capture.
Pre-trained BERT contextualized representations have achieved state-of-the-art results on multiple downstream NLP tasks by fine-tuning with task-specific data. While there has been a lot of focus on task-specific fine-tuning, there has been limited work on improving the pre-trained representations. In this paper, we explore ways of improving the pre-trained contextual representations for the task of automatic short answer grading, a critical component of intelligent tutoring systems. We show that the pre-trained BERT model can be improved by augmenting data from the domain-specific resources like textbooks. We also present a new approach to use labeled short answering grading data for further enhancement of the language model. Empirical evaluation on multi-domain datasets shows that task-specific fine-tuning on the enhanced pre-trained language model achieves superior performance for short answer grading.
We introduce WIQA, the first large-scale dataset of {``}What if...{''} questions over procedural text. WIQA contains a collection of paragraphs, each annotated with multiple influence graphs describing how one change affects another, and a large (40k) collection of {``}What if...?{''} multiple-choice questions derived from these. For example, given a paragraph about beach erosion, would stormy weather hasten or decelerate erosion? WIQA contains three kinds of questions: perturbations to steps mentioned in the paragraph; external (out-of-paragraph) perturbations requiring commonsense knowledge; and irrelevant (no effect) perturbations. We find that state-of-the-art models achieve 73.8{\%} accuracy, well below the human performance of 96.3{\%}. We analyze the challenges, in particular tracking chains of influences, and present the dataset as an open challenge to the community.
Natural language inference (NLI) datasets (e.g., MultiNLI) were collected by soliciting hypotheses for a given premise from annotators. Such data collection led to annotation artifacts: systems can identify the premise-hypothesis relationship without observing the premise (e.g., negation in hypothesis being indicative of contradiction). We address this problem by recasting the CommitmentBank for NLI, which contains items involving reasoning over the extent to which a speaker is committed to complements of clause-embedding verbs under entailment-canceling environments (conditional, negation, modal and question). Instead of being constructed to stand in certain relationships with the premise, hypotheses in the recast CommitmentBank are the complements of the clause-embedding verb in each premise, leading to no annotation artifacts in the hypothesis. A state-of-the-art BERT-based model performs well on the CommitmentBank with 85{\%} F1. However analysis of model behavior shows that the BERT models still do not capture the full complexity of pragmatic reasoning, nor encode some of the linguistic generalizations, highlighting room for improvement.
Recently, biomedical version of embeddings obtained from language models such as BioELMo have shown state-of-the-art results for the textual inference task in the medical domain. In this paper, we explore how to incorporate structured domain knowledge, available in the form of a knowledge graph (UMLS), for the Medical NLI task. Specifically, we experiment with fusing embeddings obtained from knowledge graph with the state-of-the-art approaches for NLI task (ESIM model). We also experiment with fusing the domain-specific sentiment information for the task. Experiments conducted on MedNLI dataset clearly show that this strategy improves the baseline BioELMo architecture for the Medical NLI task.
For machine translation, a vast majority of language pairs in the world are considered low-resource because they have little parallel data available. Besides the technical challenges of learning with limited supervision, it is difficult to evaluate methods trained on low-resource language pairs because of the lack of freely and publicly available benchmarks. In this work, we introduce the FLORES evaluation datasets for Nepali{--}English and Sinhala{--} English, based on sentences translated from Wikipedia. Compared to English, these are languages with very different morphology and syntax, for which little out-of-domain parallel data is available and for which relatively large amounts of monolingual data are freely available. We describe our process to collect and cross-check the quality of translations, and we report baseline performance using several learning settings: fully supervised, weakly supervised, semi-supervised, and fully unsupervised. Our experiments demonstrate that current state-of-the-art methods perform rather poorly on this benchmark, posing a challenge to the research community working on low-resource MT. Data and code to reproduce our experiments are available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/flores.
Most machine translation systems generate text autoregressively from left to right. We, instead, use a masked language modeling objective to train a model to predict any subset of the target words, conditioned on both the input text and a partially masked target translation. This approach allows for efficient iterative decoding, where we first predict all of the target words non-autoregressively, and then repeatedly mask out and regenerate the subset of words that the model is least confident about. By applying this strategy for a constant number of iterations, our model improves state-of-the-art performance levels for non-autoregressive and parallel decoding translation models by over 4 BLEU on average. It is also able to reach within about 1 BLEU point of a typical left-to-right transformer model, while decoding significantly faster.
Word embeddings have been widely used to study gender stereotypes in texts. One key problem regarding existing bias scores is to evaluate their validities: do they really reflect true bias levels? For a small set of words (e.g. occupations), we can rely on human annotations or external data. However, for most words, evaluating the correctness of them is still an open problem. In this work, we utilize word association test, which contains rich types of word connections annotated by human participants, to explore how gender stereotypes spread within our minds. Specifically, we use random walk on word association graph to derive bias scores for a large amount of words. Experiments show that these bias scores correlate well with bias in the real world. More importantly, comparing with word-embedding-based bias scores, it provides a different perspective on gender stereotypes in words.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework for sarcasm generation; the system takes a literal negative opinion as input and translates it into a sarcastic version. Our framework does not require any paired data for training. Sarcasm emanates from context-incongruity which becomes apparent as the sentence unfolds. Our framework introduces incongruity into the literal input version through modules that: (a) filter factual content from the input opinion, (b) retrieve incongruous phrases related to the filtered facts and (c) synthesize sarcastic text from the incongruous filtered and incongruous phrases. The framework employs reinforced neural sequence to sequence learning and information retrieval and is trained only using unlabeled non-sarcastic and sarcastic opinions. Since no labeled dataset exists for such a task, for evaluation, we manually prepare a benchmark dataset containing literal opinions and their sarcastic paraphrases. Qualitative and quantitative performance analyses on the data reveal our system{'}s superiority over baselines built using known unsupervised statistical and neural machine translation and style transfer techniques.
Classical Chinese poetry is a jewel in the treasure house of Chinese culture. Previous poem generation models only allow users to employ keywords to interfere the meaning of generated poems, leaving the dominion of generation to the model. In this paper, we propose a novel task of generating classical Chinese poems from vernacular, which allows users to have more control over the semantic of generated poems. We adapt the approach of unsupervised machine translation (UMT) to our task. We use segmentation-based padding and reinforcement learning to address under-translation and over-translation respectively. According to experiments, our approach significantly improve the perplexity and BLEU compared with typical UMT models. Furthermore, we explored guidelines on how to write the input vernacular to generate better poems. Human evaluation showed our approach can generate high-quality poems which are comparable to amateur poems.
We present set to ordered text, a natural language generation task applied to automatically generating discharge instructions from admission ICD (International Classification of Diseases) codes. This task differs from other natural language generation tasks in the following ways: (1) The input is a set of identifiable entities (ICD codes) where the relations between individual entity are not explicitly specified. (2) The output text is not a narrative description (e.g. news articles) composed from the input. Rather, inferences are made from the input (symptoms specified in ICD codes) to generate the output (instructions). (3) There is an optimal order in which each sentence (instruction) should appear in the output. Unlike most other tasks, neither the input (ICD codes) nor their corresponding symptoms appear in the output, so the ordering of the output instructions needs to be learned in an unsupervised fashion. Based on clinical intuition, we hypothesize that each instruction in the output is mapped to a subset of ICD codes specified in the input. We propose a neural architecture that jointly models (a) subset selection: choosing relevant subsets from a set of input entities; (b) content ordering: learning the order of instructions; and (c) text generation: representing the instructions corresponding to the selected subsets in natural language. In addition, we penalize redundancy during beam search to improve tractability for long text generation. Our model outperforms baseline models in BLEU scores and human evaluation. We plan to extend this work to other tasks such as recipe generation from ingredients.
Phonological processes are context-dependent sound changes in natural languages. We present an unsupervised approach to learning human-readable descriptions of phonological processes from collections of related utterances. Our approach builds upon a technique from the programming languages community called *constraint-based program synthesis*. We contribute a novel encoding of the learning problem into Boolean Satisfiability constraints, which enables both data efficiency and fast inference. We evaluate our system on textbook phonology problems and datasets from the literature, and show that it achieves high accuracy at interactive speeds.
The task of Chinese text spam detection is very challenging due to both glyph and phonetic variations of Chinese characters. This paper proposes a novel framework to jointly model Chinese variational, semantic, and contextualized representations for Chinese text spam detection task. In particular, a Variation Family-enhanced Graph Embedding (VFGE) algorithm is designed based on a Chinese character variation graph. The VFGE can learn both the graph embeddings of the Chinese characters (local) and the latent variation families (global). Furthermore, an enhanced bidirectional language model, with a combination gate function and an aggregation learning function, is proposed to integrate the graph and text information while capturing the sequential information. Extensive experiments have been conducted on both SMS and review datasets, to show the proposed method outperforms a series of state-of-the-art models for Chinese spam detection.
We propose a fine-grained entity typing model with a novel attention mechanism and a hybrid type classifier. We advance existing methods in two aspects: feature extraction and type prediction. To capture richer contextual information, we adopt contextualized word representations instead of fixed word embeddings used in previous work. In addition, we propose a two-step mention-aware attention mechanism to enable the model to focus on important words in mentions and contexts. We also present a hybrid classification method beyond binary relevance to exploit type inter-dependency with latent type representation. Instead of independently predicting each type, we predict a low-dimensional vector that encodes latent type features and reconstruct the type vector from this latent representation. Experiment results on multiple data sets show that our model significantly advances the state-of-the-art on fine-grained entity typing, obtaining up to 6.1{\%} and 5.5{\%} absolute gains in macro averaged F-score and micro averaged F-score respectively.
Determining temporal relations (e.g., before or after) between events has been a challenging natural language understanding task, partly due to the difficulty to generate large amounts of high-quality training data. Consequently, neural approaches have not been widely used on it, or showed only moderate improvements. This paper proposes a new neural system that achieves about 10{\%} absolute improvement in accuracy over the previous best system (25{\%} error reduction) on two benchmark datasets. The proposed system is trained on the state-of-the-art MATRES dataset and applies contextualized word embeddings, a Siamese encoder of a temporal common sense knowledge base, and global inference via integer linear programming (ILP). We suggest that the new approach could serve as a strong baseline for future research in this area.
Fine-grained entity typing is a challenging problem since it usually involves a relatively large tag set and may require to understand the context of the entity mention. In this paper, we use entity linking to help with the fine-grained entity type classification process. We propose a deep neural model that makes predictions based on both the context and the information obtained from entity linking results. Experimental results on two commonly used datasets demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach. On both datasets, it achieves more than 5{\%} absolute strict accuracy improvement over the state of the art.
In medical documents, it is possible that an entity of interest not only contains a discontiguous sequence of words but also overlaps with another entity. Entities of such structures are intrinsically hard to recognize due to the large space of possible entity combinations. In this work, we propose a neural two-stage approach to recognizing discontiguous and overlapping entities by decomposing this problem into two subtasks: 1) it first detects all the overlapping spans that either form entities on their own or present as segments of discontiguous entities, based on the representation of segmental hypergraph, 2) next it learns to combine these segments into discontiguous entities with a classifier, which filters out other incorrect combinations of segments. Two neural components are designed for these subtasks respectively and they are learned jointly using a shared encoder for text. Our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance in a standard dataset, even in the absence of external features that previous methods used.
Most existing relation extraction approaches exclusively target binary relations, and n-ary relation extraction is relatively unexplored. Current state-of-the-art n-ary relation extraction method is based on a supervised learning approach and, therefore, may suffer from the lack of sufficient relation labels. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to cross-sentence n-ary relation extraction based on universal schemas. To alleviate the sparsity problem and to leverage inherent decomposability of n-ary relations, we propose to learn relation representations of lower-arity facts that result from decomposing higher-arity facts. The proposed method computes a score of a new n-ary fact by aggregating scores of its decomposed lower-arity facts. We conduct experiments with datasets for ternary relation extraction and empirically show that our method improves the n-ary relation extraction performance compared to previous methods.
Current region-based NER models only rely on fully-annotated training data to learn effective region encoder, which often face the training data bottleneck. To alleviate this problem, this paper proposes Gazetteer-Enhanced Attentive Neural Networks, which can enhance region-based NER by learning name knowledge of entity mentions from easily-obtainable gazetteers, rather than only from fully-annotated data. Specially, we first propose an attentive neural network (ANN), which explicitly models the mention-context association and therefore is convenient for integrating externally-learned knowledge. Then we design an auxiliary gazetteer network, which can effectively encode name regularity of mentions only using gazetteers. Finally, the learned gazetteer network is incorporated into ANN for better NER. Experiments show that our ANN can achieve the state-of-the-art performance on ACE2005 named entity recognition benchmark. Besides, incorporating gazetteer network can further improve the performance and significantly reduce the requirement of training data.
Attributing a particular property to a person by naming another person, who is typically wellknown for the respective property, is called a Vossian Antonomasia (VA). This subtpye of metonymy, which overlaps with metaphor, has a specific syntax and is especially frequent in journalistic texts. While identifying Vossian Antonomasia is of particular interest in the study of stylistics, it is also a source of errors in relation and fact extraction as an explicitly mentioned entity occurs only metaphorically and should not be associated with respective contexts. Despite rather simple syntactic variations, the automatic extraction of VA was never addressed as yet since it requires a deeper semantic understanding of mentioned entities and underlying relations. In this paper, we propose a first method for the extraction of VAs that works completely automatically. Our approaches use named entity recognition, distant supervision based on Wikidata, and a bi-directional LSTM for postprocessing. The evaluation on 1.8 million articles of the New York Times corpus shows that our approach significantly outperforms the only existing semi-automatic approach for VA identification by more than 30 percentage points in precision.
We propose a method to improve named entity recognition (NER) for chemical compounds using multi-task learning by jointly training a chemical NER model and a chemical com- pound paraphrase model. Our method en- ables the long short-term memory (LSTM) of the NER model to capture chemical com- pound paraphrases by sharing the parameters of the LSTM and character embeddings be- tween the two models. The experimental re- sults on the BioCreative IV{'}s CHEMDNER task show that our method improves chemi- cal NER and achieves state-of-the-art perfor- mance.
We present FewRel 2.0, a more challenging task to investigate two aspects of few-shot relation classification models: (1) Can they adapt to a new domain with only a handful of instances? (2) Can they detect none-of-the-above (NOTA) relations? To construct FewRel 2.0, we build upon the FewRel dataset by adding a new test set in a quite different domain, and a NOTA relation choice. With the new dataset and extensive experimental analysis, we found (1) that the state-of-the-art few-shot relation classification models struggle on these two aspects, and (2) that the commonly-used techniques for domain adaptation and NOTA detection still cannot handle the two challenges well. Our research calls for more attention and further efforts to these two real-world issues. All details and resources about the dataset and baselines are released at https://github.com/thunlp/fewrel.
For those languages which use it, capitalization is an important signal for the fundamental NLP tasks of Named Entity Recognition (NER) and Part of Speech (POS) tagging. In fact, it is such a strong signal that model performance on these tasks drops sharply in common lowercased scenarios, such as noisy web text or machine translation outputs. In this work, we perform a systematic analysis of solutions to this problem, modifying only the casing of the train or test data using lowercasing and truecasing methods. While prior work and first impressions might suggest training a caseless model, or using a truecaser at test time, we show that the most effective strategy is a concatenation of cased and lowercased training data, producing a single model with high performance on both cased and uncased text. As shown in our experiments, this result holds across tasks and input representations. Finally, we show that our proposed solution gives an 8{\%} F1 improvement in mention detection on noisy out-of-domain Twitter data.
Open Information Extraction (Open IE) systems have been traditionally evaluated via manual annotation. Recently, an automated evaluator with a benchmark dataset (OIE2016) was released {--} it scores Open IE systems automatically by matching system predictions with predictions in the benchmark dataset. Unfortunately, our analysis reveals that its data is rather noisy, and the tuple matching in the evaluator has issues, making the results of automated comparisons less trustworthy. We contribute CaRB, an improved dataset and framework for testing Open IE systems. To the best of our knowledge, CaRB is the first crowdsourced Open IE dataset and it also makes substantive changes in the matching code and metrics. NLP experts annotate CaRB{'}s dataset to be more accurate than OIE2016. Moreover, we find that on one pair of Open IE systems, CaRB framework provides contradictory results to OIE2016. Human assessment verifies that CaRB{'}s ranking of the two systems is the accurate ranking. We release the CaRB framework along with its crowdsourced dataset.
The task of entity recognition has traditionally been modelled as a sequence labelling task. However, this usually requires a large amount of fine-grained data annotated at the token level, which in turn can be expensive and cumbersome to obtain. In this work, we aim to circumvent this requirement of word-level annotated data. To achieve this, we propose a novel architecture for entity recognition from a corpus containing weak binary presence/absence labels, which are relatively easier to obtain. We show that our proposed weakly supervised model, trained solely on a multi-label classification task, performs reasonably well on the task of entity recognition, despite not having access to any token-level ground truth data.
In online arguments, identifying how users construct their arguments to persuade others is important in order to understand a persuasive strategy directly. However, existing research lacks empirical investigations on highly semantic aspects of elementary units (EUs), such as propositions for a persuasive online argument. Therefore, this paper focuses on a pilot study, revealing a persuasion strategy using EUs. Our contributions are as follows: (1) annotating five types of EUs in a persuasive forum, the so-called ChangeMyView, (2) revealing both intuitive and non-intuitive strategic insights for the persuasion by analyzing 4612 annotated EUs, and (3) proposing baseline neural models that identify the EU boundary and type. Our observations imply that EUs definitively characterize online persuasion strategies.
Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) has attracted increasing attention recently due to its broad applications. In existing ABSA datasets, most sentences contain only one aspect or multiple aspects with the same sentiment polarity, which makes ABSA task degenerate to sentence-level sentiment analysis. In this paper, we present a new large-scale Multi-Aspect Multi-Sentiment (MAMS) dataset, in which each sentence contains at least two different aspects with different sentiment polarities. The release of this dataset would push forward the research in this field. In addition, we propose simple yet effective CapsNet and CapsNet-BERT models which combine the strengths of recent NLP advances. Experiments on our new dataset show that the proposed model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline methods
Deep neural networks (DNNs) can fit (or even over-fit) the training data very well. If a DNN model is trained using data with noisy labels and tested on data with clean labels, the model may perform poorly. This paper studies the problem of learning with noisy labels for sentence-level sentiment classification. We propose a novel DNN model called NetAb (as shorthand for convolutional neural Networks with Ab-networks) to handle noisy labels during training. NetAb consists of two convolutional neural networks, one with a noise transition layer for dealing with the input noisy labels and the other for predicting {`}clean{'} labels. We train the two networks using their respective loss functions in a mutual reinforcement manner. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model.
We introduce a new dataset for multi-class emotion analysis from long-form narratives in English. The Dataset for Emotions of Narrative Sequences (DENS) was collected from both classic literature available on Project Gutenberg and modern online narratives avail- able on Wattpad, annotated using Amazon Mechanical Turk. A number of statistics and baseline benchmarks are provided for the dataset. Of the tested techniques, we find that the fine-tuning of a pre-trained BERT model achieves the best results, with an average micro-F1 score of 60.4{\%}. Our results show that the dataset provides a novel opportunity in emotion analysis that requires moving beyond existing sentence-level techniques.
Based on massive amounts of data, recent pretrained contextual representation models have made significant strides in advancing a number of different English NLP tasks. However, for other languages, relevant training data may be lacking, while state-of-the-art deep learning methods are known to be data-hungry. In this paper, we present an elegantly simple robust self-learning framework to include unlabeled non-English samples in the fine-tuning process of pretrained multilingual representation models. We leverage a multilingual model{'}s own predictions on unlabeled non-English data in order to obtain additional information that can be used during further fine-tuning. Compared with original multilingual models and other cross-lingual classification models, we observe significant gains in effectiveness on document and sentiment classification for a range of diverse languages.
Flipping sentiment while preserving sentence meaning is challenging because parallel sentences with the same content but different sentiment polarities are not always available for model learning. We introduce a method for acquiring imperfectly aligned sentences from non-parallel corpora and propose a model that learns to minimize the sentiment and content losses in a fully end-to-end manner. Our model is simple and offers well-balanced results across two domains: Yelp restaurant and Amazon product reviews.
Twitter is used for various applications such as disaster monitoring and news material gathering. In these applications, each Tweet is classified into pre-defined classes. These classes have a semantic relationship with each other and can be classified into a hierarchical structure, which is regarded as important information. Label texts of pre-defined classes themselves also include important clues for classification. Therefore, we propose a method that can consider the hierarchical structure of labels and label texts themselves. We conducted evaluation over the Text REtrieval Conference (TREC) 2018 Incident Streams (IS) track dataset, and we found that our method outperformed the methods of the conference participants.
Word embeddings have demonstrated strong performance on NLP tasks. However, lack of interpretability and the unsupervised nature of word embeddings have limited their use within computational social science and digital humanities. We propose the use of informative priors to create interpretable and domain-informed dimensions for probabilistic word embeddings. Experimental results show that sensible priors can capture latent semantic concepts better than or on-par with the current state of the art, while retaining the simplicity and generalizability of using priors.
Elazar and Goldberg (2018) showed that protected attributes can be extracted from the representations of a debiased neural network for mention detection at above-chance levels, by evaluating a diagnostic classifier on a held-out subsample of the data it was trained on. We revisit their experiments and conduct a series of follow-up experiments showing that, in fact, the diagnostic classifier generalizes poorly to both new in-domain samples and new domains, indicating that it relies on correlations specific to their particular data sample. We further show that a diagnostic classifier trained on the biased baseline neural network also does not generalize to new samples. In other words, the biases detected in Elazar and Goldberg (2018) seem restricted to their particular data sample, and would therefore not bias the decisions of the model on new samples, whether in-domain or out-of-domain. In light of this, we discuss better methodologies for detecting bias in our models.
In this paper we propose a deep learning framework for sarcasm target detection in predefined sarcastic texts. Identification of sarcasm targets can help in many core natural language processing tasks such as aspect based sentiment analysis, opinion mining etc. To begin with, we perform an empirical study of the socio-linguistic features and identify those that are statistically significant in indicating sarcasm targets (p-values in the range(0.05,0.001)). Finally, we present a deep-learning framework augmented with socio-linguistic features to detect sarcasm targets in sarcastic book-snippets and tweets.We achieve a huge improvement in the performance in terms of exact match and dice scores compared to the current state-of-the-art baseline.
The increasing prevalence of political bias in news media calls for greater public awareness of it, as well as robust methods for its detection. While prior work in NLP has primarily focused on the lexical bias captured by linguistic attributes such as word choice and syntax, other types of bias stem from the actual content selected for inclusion in the text. In this work, we investigate the effects of informational bias: factual content that can nevertheless be deployed to sway reader opinion. We first produce a new dataset, BASIL, of 300 news articles annotated with 1,727 bias spans and find evidence that informational bias appears in news articles more frequently than lexical bias. We further study our annotations to observe how informational bias surfaces in news articles by different media outlets. Lastly, a baseline model for informational bias prediction is presented by fine-tuning BERT on our labeled data, indicating the challenges of the task and future directions.
Stance detection in social media is a well-studied task in a variety of domains. Nevertheless, previous work has mostly focused on multiclass versions of the problem, where the labels are mutually exclusive, and typically positive, negative or neutral. In this paper, we address versions of the task in which an utterance can have multiple labels, thus corresponding to multilabel classification. We propose a method that explicitly incorporates label dependencies in the training objective and compare it against a variety of baselines, as well as a reduction of multilabel to multiclass learning. In experiments with three datasets, we find that our proposed method improves upon all baselines on two out of three datasets. We also show that the reduction of multilabel to multiclass classification can be very competitive, especially in cases where the output consists of a small number of labels and one can enumerate over all label combinations.
Sports broadcasters inject drama into play-by-play commentary by building team and player narratives through subjective analyses and anecdotes. Prior studies based on small datasets and manual coding show that such theatrics evince commentator bias in sports broadcasts. To examine this phenomenon, we assemble FOOTBALL, which contains 1,455 broadcast transcripts from American football games across six decades that are automatically annotated with 250K player mentions and linked with racial metadata. We identify major confounding factors for researchers examining racial bias in FOOTBALL, and perform a computational analysis that supports conclusions from prior social science studies.
Judgment prediction for legal cases has attracted much research efforts for its practice use, of which the ultimate goal is prison term prediction. While existing work merely predicts the total prison term, in reality a defendant is often charged with multiple crimes. In this paper, we argue that charge-based prison term prediction (CPTP) not only better fits realistic needs, but also makes the total prison term prediction more accurate and interpretable. We collect the first large-scale structured data for CPTP and evaluate several competitive baselines. Based on the observation that fine-grained feature selection is the key to achieving good performance, we propose the Deep Gating Network (DGN) for charge-specific feature selection and aggregation. Experiments show that DGN achieves the state-of-the-art performance.
Ancient History relies on disciplines such as Epigraphy, the study of ancient inscribed texts, for evidence of the recorded past. However, these texts, {``}inscriptions{''}, are often damaged over the centuries, and illegible parts of the text must be restored by specialists, known as epigraphists. This work presents Pythia, the first ancient text restoration model that recovers missing characters from a damaged text input using deep neural networks. Its architecture is carefully designed to handle long-term context information, and deal efficiently with missing or corrupted character and word representations. To train it, we wrote a non-trivial pipeline to convert PHI, the largest digital corpus of ancient Greek inscriptions, to machine actionable text, which we call PHI-ML. On PHI-ML, Pythia{'}s predictions achieve a 30.1{\%} character error rate, compared to the 57.3{\%} of human epigraphists. Moreover, in 73.5{\%} of cases the ground-truth sequence was among the Top-20 hypotheses of Pythia, which effectively demonstrates the impact of this assistive method on the field of digital epigraphy, and sets the state-of-the-art in ancient text restoration.
We present EDA: easy data augmentation techniques for boosting performance on text classification tasks. EDA consists of four simple but powerful operations: synonym replacement, random insertion, random swap, and random deletion. On five text classification tasks, we show that EDA improves performance for both convolutional and recurrent neural networks. EDA demonstrates particularly strong results for smaller datasets; on average, across five datasets, training with EDA while using only 50{\%} of the available training set achieved the same accuracy as normal training with all available data. We also performed extensive ablation studies and suggest parameters for practical use.
News recommendation can help users find interested news and alleviate information overload. Precisely modeling news and users is critical for news recommendation, and capturing the contexts of words and news is important to learn news and user representations. In this paper, we propose a neural news recommendation approach with multi-head self-attention (NRMS). The core of our approach is a news encoder and a user encoder. In the news encoder, we use multi-head self-attentions to learn news representations from news titles by modeling the interactions between words. In the user encoder, we learn representations of users from their browsed news and use multi-head self-attention to capture the relatedness between the news. Besides, we apply additive attention to learn more informative news and user representations by selecting important words and news. Experiments on a real-world dataset validate the effectiveness and efficiency of our approach.
Building named entity recognition (NER) models for languages that do not have much training data is a challenging task. While recent work has shown promising results on cross-lingual transfer from high-resource languages, it is unclear what knowledge is transferred. In this paper, we first propose a simple and efficient neural architecture for cross-lingual NER. Experiments show that our model achieves competitive performance with the state-of-the-art. We further explore how transfer learning works for cross-lingual NER on two transferable factors: sequential order and multilingual embedding. Our results shed light on future research for improving cross-lingual NER.
Humor plays important role in human communication, which makes it important problem for natural language processing. Prior work on the analysis of humor focuses on whether text is humorous or not, or the degree of funniness, but this is insufficient to explain why it is funny. We therefore create a dataset on humor with 9,123 manually annotated jokes in Chinese. We propose a novel annotation scheme to give scenarios of how humor arises in text. Specifically, our annotations of linguistic humor not only contain the degree of funniness, like previous work, but they also contain key words that trigger humor as well as character relationship, scene, and humor categories. We report reasonable agreement between annota-tors. We also conduct an analysis and exploration of the dataset. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to approach humor annotation for exploring the underlying mechanism of the use of humor, which may contribute to a significantly deeper analysis of humor. We also contribute with a scarce and valuable dataset, which we will release publicly.
An anagram is a sentence or a phrase that is made by permutating the characters of an input sentence or a phrase. For example, {``}Trims cash{''} is an anagram of {``}Christmas{''}. Existing automatic anagram generation methods can find possible combinations of words form an anagram. However, they do not pay much attention to the naturalness of the generated anagrams. In this paper, we show that simple depth-first search can yield natural anagrams when it is combined with modern neural language models. Human evaluation results show that the proposed method can generate significantly more natural anagrams than baseline methods.
Controversial claims are abundant in online media and discussion forums. A better understanding of such claims requires analyzing them from different perspectives. Stance classification is a necessary step for inferring these perspectives in terms of supporting or opposing the claim. In this work, we present a neural network model for stance classification leveraging BERT representations and augmenting them with a novel consistency constraint. Experiments on the Perspectrum dataset, consisting of claims and users{'} perspectives from various debate websites, demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over state-of-the-art baselines.
This paper explores different approaches to multilingual intent classification in a low resource setting. Recent advances in multilingual text representations promise cross-lingual transfer for classifiers. We investigate the potential for this transfer in an applied industrial setting and compare to multilingual classification using machine translated text. Our results show that while the recently developed methods show promise, practical application calls for a combination of techniques for useful results.
We continue the study of generating se-mantically correct regular expressions from natural language descriptions (NL). The current state-of-the-art model SemRegex produces regular expressions from NLs by rewarding the reinforced learning based on the semantic (rather than syntactic) equivalence between two regular expressions. Since the regular expression equivalence problem is PSPACE-complete, we introduce the EQ{\_}Reg model for computing the simi-larity of two regular expressions using deep neural networks. Our EQ{\_}Reg mod-el essentially softens the equivalence of two regular expressions when used as a reward function. We then propose a new regex generation model, SoftRegex, us-ing the EQ{\_}Reg model, and empirically demonstrate that SoftRegex substantially reduces the training time (by a factor of at least 3.6) and produces state-of-the-art results on three benchmark datasets.
Monitoring patients in ICU is a challenging and high-cost task. Hence, predicting the condition of patients during their ICU stay can help provide better acute care and plan the hospital{'}s resources. There has been continuous progress in machine learning research for ICU management, and most of this work has focused on using time series signals recorded by ICU instruments. In our work, we show that adding clinical notes as another modality improves the performance of the model for three benchmark tasks: in-hospital mortality prediction, modeling decompensation, and length of stay forecasting that play an important role in ICU management. While the time-series data is measured at regular intervals, doctor notes are charted at irregular times, making it challenging to model them together. We propose a method to model them jointly, achieving considerable improvement across benchmark tasks over baseline time-series model.
We present a machine foreign-language teacher that modifies text in a student{'}s native language (L1) by replacing some word tokens with glosses in a foreign language (L2), in such a way that the student can acquire L2 vocabulary simply by reading the resulting macaronic text. The machine teacher uses no supervised data from human students. Instead, to guide the machine teacher{'}s choice of which words to replace, we equip a cloze language model with a training procedure that can incrementally learn representations for novel words, and use this model as a proxy for the word guessing and learning ability of real human students. We use Mechanical Turk to evaluate two variants of the student model: (i) one that generates a representation for a novel word using only surrounding context and (ii) an extension that also uses the spelling of the novel word.
Solving long-lasting problems such as food insecurity requires a comprehensive understanding of interventions applied by governments and international humanitarian assistance organizations, and their results and consequences. Towards achieving this grand goal, a crucial first step is to extract past interventions and when and where they have been applied, from hundreds of thousands of reports automatically. In this paper, we developed a corpus annotated with interventions to foster research, and developed an information extraction system for extracting interventions and their location and time from text. We demonstrate early, very encouraging results on extracting interventions.
Following navigation instructions in natural language (NL) requires a composition of language, action, and knowledge of the environment. Knowledge of the environment may be provided via visual sensors or as a symbolic world representation referred to as a map. Previous work on map-based NL navigation relied on small artificial worlds with a fixed set of entities known in advance. Here we introduce the Realistic Urban Navigation (RUN) task, aimed at interpreting NL navigation instructions based on a real, dense, urban map. Using Amazon Mechanical Turk, we collected a dataset of 2515 instructions aligned with actual routes over three regions of Manhattan. We then empirically study which aspects of a neural architecture are important for the RUN success, and empirically show that entity abstraction, attention over words and worlds, and a constantly updating world-state, significantly contribute to task accuracy.
In multi-party chat, it is common for multiple conversations to occur concurrently, leading to intermingled conversation threads in chat logs. In this work, we propose a novel Context-Aware Thread Detection (CATD) model that automatically disentangles these conversation threads. We evaluate our model on four real-world datasets and demonstrate an overall im-provement in thread detection accuracy over state-of-the-art benchmarks.
In a spoken question answering (SQA) system, a straightforward strategy is to transcribe given speech utterances into text using an ASR system. After that, classic methods can be readily used to the auto-transcribe text. However, such a strategy usually can not achieve a good performance due to the recognition errors. In order to mitigate the problem, in this paper, we 
Automatic summarization methods can be classified into two major spectrums: extractive summarization and abstractive summarization. Although abstractive summarization methods can produce a summary by using different words and phrases that were not in the given document, it usually leads to an influence summary. On the contrary, extractive summarization methods generate a summary by copying and concatenating the most important sentences in the given document, which usually can provide a more continuous and readable summary. Recently, BERT (Bidirectional encoder representation from transformers)-based extractive summarization methods usually leverage BERT to encode each sentence into a fixed lowdimensional vector, and then a fine-tuned BERT model can be used to predict a score for each sentence. On top of the predicted scores, we can rank these sentences and form a summary for a given document. In this paper, we propose an enhanced BERT-based extractive summarization framework (EBSUM), which not only takes sentence position information and RL training into account, but the maximal marginal relevance (MMR) criterion is also be considered. In our experiments, we evaluate the proposed framework on the CNN/DailyMail benchmark corpus, and the results demonstrate that EBSUM can achieve a better result than other classic extractive summarization methods. Keywords: Extractive, Summarization, BERT, MMR. 
Extractive summarization aims at selecting a set of sentences to form a summary for a given document. Learning-to-rank is first appeared in the field of information retrieval, and it has been employed to solve several ranking-based tasks. In this study, we regard the task of extractive summarization as a listwise sentence ranking problem, and thus a GAN-based 15  
If the search results can consider topics or similar situations, we can find results that are more in line with user’s expectations. Therefore, our research uses neural network and document concept graph to explore the topics or semantics similarity. The experimental results show that the best macro-F1 is 70.0% in the classifier trained via the neural network. Combined with the calculation of the concept graph of the document, the nDCG score can reach 0.959 in terms of the similarity between the search content and the results. This proves that the results based on the neural network and the document concept graph can be used to complement and enhance the performance of information retrieval. 關鍵詞：資訊檢索、類神經網路、文件概念圖、語意相似度 
In recent years, speech recognition applications have introduced a variety of remote operating systems, such as car voice assistants, smart speakers, etc. In these systems, far-field speech recognition plays a key role. This paper mainly presents our experiments and results on farfield speech recognition on smart speaker devices. We use data augmentation methods, simulated far-field speech and neural network-based acoustic models to reduce the character error rate (CER). In the experimental part, this paper recorded the parallel test corpus of three distances using the smart speaker. The 50cm situation corpus can be reduced from 13.31% to 8.41%, the relative improvement is 36.8%, and the 80cm situation corpus is reduced from 19.20% to 10.89% with relative improvement of 43.2%. 關鍵詞：遠距離語音辨識，智慧音箱，類神經網路聲學模型，資料擴充 Keywords: far-field, smart speaker, neural network-based acoustic models, data augmentation 35  
In recent years, the concept of dialogue business has arisen among major technology giants, and the way of human-computer interaction has changed from a graphical interface to a 62  dialogue interaction interface. Therefore, natural language has become a key factor in the human-computer interaction interface. However, teaching the machine to communicate with humans to accomplish a specific task can be quite challenging. One of the difficulties that needs to overcome is natural language understanding, including how to identify what questions users are asking and how to get information hidden between words. It is important to let the machine know the user's intentions and information. The dataset of this study is collected from the dialogue of customer service materials. User’s intents are recognized by deep learning models. In order to process Chinese unknown words more effectively and reduce false recognition, this study compares different pre-training vector models and deep learning models to understand user’s intents. Compared with the use of random word embedding, the correct rate of using BERT-WWM-Chinese (BWC) model is improved by nearly 10%. It shows that the semantic vector generated by BWC model can better represent the relationship between user’s words. The recognition rate of user’s intent raises because similar vectors can be generated from similar words. 關鍵詞：對話系統，對話行為，深度學習，預訓練詞嵌入模型，注意力機制 Keywords: Dialogue System, Dialogue Act, Deep Learning, Pre-trained Word Embedding, Attention. 一、緒論 在科技不斷進步的今日，電腦、智慧型裝置、網路資訊服務在人類生活中日益扮演著重 要的角色，人跟機器之間已有著密不可分的關係。也因為近年來人工智慧發展快速，更 多應用深度學習技術來精進傳統機器學習方法的技術。 在許多情景下，對話用戶介面比圖型用戶介面更加自然及高效率，加上智慧型手機之發 展，相較於撥打傳統語音客服，年輕人開始轉向使用文字對話介面與客服互動。傳統語 音客服的各項任務，皆可經由文字對話描述來實現互動服務。許多公司及個人都嘗試著 架構專屬的聊天機器人(Chabot)。然而，聊天機器人的功能不僅僅侷限於聊天，能夠以 對話的方式來協助人類完成各式各樣目標才是我們真正想要的人工智慧。 在對話系統中，一般系統的輸入可以為語音或是文字，基於語音系統架構以 Steve Young 提出的架構最為典型[1]，而以文字為輸入的系統架構可以分為三大部分，首先是自然 語言理解 (Nature Language Understanding, NLU) ，接著為對話管理 (Dialogue Manager, 63  DM) ，最後為自然語言產生 (Nature Language Generation, NLG) 。 機器人對話系統大致上可分為 2 種，分別是： 1. 聊天型對話系統：其不需要理解問題，只需要依據模型預測給予答案即可。 2. 任務型對話系統：需要分析問題意圖並給予預先建立之領域知識庫所定義的答案， 其實作困難度相較於聊天型對話系統更高，因為回覆必須精準解答問題。 以實用性而言，任務型對話系統遠較聊天型對話系統要高，因為其可以給予用戶較有資 訊意涵之回應。其衡量指標在於讓用戶自助服務率提高、並提升用戶滿意度，這包含對 話輪次越少就能找到答案越好、可支援的意圖越多越好、回覆的內容越精準確實越好。 在傳統文字客服系統上，用戶進線與客服交談以取得對應的解答。但是受限於公司成本 考量、客服人力有限且每個值機員依其專業度，回覆內容之品質不一；若是能將大部分 較單純、基本的問題，轉交給機器人來回答，那麼就可以節降公司不少值機成本，且可 確保回覆內容一致，此外，用戶也可以節省掉等待值機員空閒、打字的時間，快速取得 其需要的服務。該如何應用這些客服的文字記錄，研發出針對特定領域能自動問答的對 話系統，是本研究的研究動機。 真實的客服對話系統中，使用者不管是表達句子方式或是詢問內容是否為該公司的業 務，都不會受到任何限制，想問甚麼就問甚麼。輸入的句子較為口語化，因此經常有省 略標點符號，打錯字，表達用詞上、文法上的錯誤，或是詢問非該領域的內容，導致無 法使用預先定義的 ontology，在語意理解上也相當困難。因為任務導向型對話系統需要 準確的理解語意，如何訓練機器去理解人類口語對話的語意，是相當重要的關鍵部分， 如能有效解決此問題，將對自然語言理解能有更大進展。近年來，隨著深度學習技術發 展迅速，國內外已經在對話系統有許多相關研究，目標都是在建立一套具有智慧的對話 系統[2-5]。針對自然語言理解的研究，使用真實中文對話資料集的研究相當稀少，本文 將比較不同深度學習模型是否可以在真實中文客服資料集中正確的辨別對話行為。 二、研究方法 一個說話者在對話中所要傳遞其意圖稱為對話行為(Dialogue act, DA)。最近由於深度學 習的一大突破，許多在對話行為研究[6-9]都有比傳統機器學習方法有不錯的提升。對話 行為分類在對話系統上佔據關鍵的因素，機器能夠充分了解使用者所表達的句子語意。 64  (一). 系統介紹  1. 資料集簡介：本論文使用之資料集為去識別化後文字及簡訊客服(不含語音客 服)的用戶對話資料，內容為行動電話與上網業務之常見客戶提問，擷取了其 中較常見的 10 種提問意圖類別，並對語句進行下述文字正規化：(1)除去意圖 不明語句(2)除去總字數小於 5 個字元內的語句(3)除去標點符號與未知字元(4) 全形轉成半形、英文大寫轉成小寫。  正規化後，共 15,773 筆訓練語句，1,584 筆測試語句，平均每句字數 12.61 個 字，詳細說明如表一：  表一、資料集各類意圖筆數  意圖類別名稱  訓練集資料筆數 測試集資料筆數  資費與合約查詢或修改  2,000  253  帳單或繳費問題  2,000  102  加值服務問題  483  24  優惠方案  2,000  668  手機銷售問題  1,239  58  國際漫遊  2,000  113  手機用量問題  1,557  80  障礙申告或收訊問題  2,000  161  APP 使用問題  1,712  81  服務據點問題  782  44  (二). 模型設計  近年來，人工智慧發展迅速，其中機器學習分支之一的深度學習在各個領域有許多 重大突破。自然語言處理領域中，傳統機器學習方法需要人工設計模型所需的特徵 組合，常消耗大量人力與時間。另一方面，深度學習則可以自動找出模型特徵表示， 同時深度學習許多架構都能有效處理不同的自然語言處理任務，以下將介紹常見的 深度學習模型。本論文討論以下 4 種預訓練詞向量方法對意圖分類器之影響：(1) 隨機嵌入(2)Skip-Gram (3)BERT (4)BERT-WWM-Chinese，分類器模型訓練流程如圖  65  一： 圖一、分類器模型訓練流程圖 (1) 隨機嵌入：訓練分類器時，使用均勻分布(Uniform Distribution)隨機初始化詞嵌入 層，每一詞彙索引對應一個值域範圍為[-0.05, 0.05]的 300 維詞向量。 (2) Skip-Gram[10]：Word2vec 是由 Mikolov 等人在 2013 年提出，使用到淺層的神經網 路模型，模型分為 Continuous Bag of Words(CBOW)與 Skip-gram，CBOW 利用詞語 的前後字建立詞窗當作輸入，來預測出此詞語，而 Skip-gram 則相反過來。由 Word2vec 產生的文字向量，將此向量投射到一個向量空間中，語意相近的詞彙將 會在向量空間中非常相近，顯示文字可以在向量空間中有語意近似的關係。近期， 許多的 Word2vec 應用在預訓練的詞向量作為訓練深度學習模型的詞語初始向量， 對訓練模型時可以更有效的調整向量，加速收斂，同時也會不斷調整(fine-tune)詞 向量，更能強化詞語語意關係。使用兩種資料集，分別為 2019 年 6 月繁體中文維 基百科1，共 340,369 篇文章，斷詞2後共 1,042,225 個不重複詞彙；真實中文客服之 對話資料集斷詞後共 1,653 個不重複詞彙，各自訓練兩個 300 維的詞向量模型。 (3) BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representation from Transformers) [11]：從 ELMo[12]之 後 ， 根 據 前 後 文 語 意 產 生 句 向 量 之 語 意 表 達 模 型 (Contextualized word representations)，成為近年來，自然語言處理領域的熱門研究主題，這類模型的優 勢在於：(1) 能夠學習到詞彙在多情境下之不同語意、語法 (2) 能夠學習到詞彙依 據上下文變化所帶來之不同語意，ELMo 透過雙向語言模型(Bidirectional language model, biLM)提供了對下游任務效果更佳的詞向量。而 OpenAI GPT[13]則將多層的 
Most of the existing Question Answer Systems focused on searching answers from the Knowledge-Base (KB), and ignore context aware information. Many Question Answer models perform well on public data-sets, but too complicated to be efficient in real world cases. Effectiveness, concurrency and system availability are equally important in industry which have large data and requests, we propose a Context Aware Question Answer System based on the Information Retrieval with Deep Semantic Matching and Deep Rank. It has been applied to the online question answer system for insurance Question Answer. By these means, we achieve both high QPS (Query Per Second) and effectiveness. Our approach improves the system’s ability to understand the question with context aware coreference resolution, subject completion, and the long sentence compression. After the matching questions are recalled from the ElasticSearch, Siamese CBOW (Continues Bag-Of-Words Model) and KBQA filter some unreasonable ones by entity alignment. After the result is sorted by the deep rank model with co-occurrence words and semantic features, our system does clarification or answer output. Finally, for those questions that we are unable to provide answers, a dialogue mining module as part of our Smart Knowledge-Base Platform is developed. This results in more than 10 times improvement in terms of efficiency for manpower involved in data labeling process. KEYWORDS Question Answering, Coreference Resolution, Error Correction, Sentence Compression, Deep Semantic Match, Deep Rank, Knowledge-Base Management, Insurance Domain All authors contributed equally to this manuscript. 72  . 
In the insurance industry, lots of effort is putting into helping the customer to solve their problems that occurred during and after purchasing cycle and helping telemarketers to practice selling skills. Chat bots and assistant bots are widely used in these business scenarios, but building a bot application from scratch is expensive. In this paper, a human-machine interaction platform specially designed for intelligent bot applications in insurance industry that combined the technologies of Question Answering (QA), task-oriented dialogue and chit-chat was proposed and we demonstrate the architecture design of this platform, key technologies and the scenario of applications in real-world insurance industry. It has been supporting many intelligent bot applications of insurance industry already, such as Intelligent Coach Bot (ICB) which helps telemarketers to practice their selling skills, Intelligent Customer Service Bot (ICSB) which provides after-sales services and Insurance Advisor Bot (IAB) which helps customer to purchase the most suitable insurance product. Currently, these bot applications serve millions of users per day and are able to solve 80% of the online problems. KEYWORDS Human-Machine Interaction Schema, Dialogue Tree, Text Similarity, Text Matching, Chit Chat Engine, Anaphora Resolution, Intention/Slot Driven, Attention Mechanism 
The paper proposes a system that compensates most of the noise in a text in natural language caused by technical imperfection of the input device such as keyboard or scanner with optical character recognition, quick typing, or writer incompetence. Correcting the spelling errors in the text improves the performance of the following natural language processing. The incorrect sequence of characters is transcribed into another sequence of correct characters by a neural network with encoder-decoder architecture. Our approach to automatic spelling correction considers characters in an erroneous sentence as words of the source languages. The neural network searches for the best sequence of output characters for the given input. The proposed approach for spelling correction does not require any or minimal amount of training data. Instead, the error model is expressed by a simple component that distorts unannotated data and creates any necessary quantity of training examples for a neural network. The experimental results show that the presented approach significantly improves the distorted data (from 50% WER to 0.09% WER) with distortion lower than 1.5% WER. Keywords: automatic spelling correction, sequence to sequence, encoder-decoder, deep learning. 102  1. Introduction Written or scanned text is often not in the intended form. Writer or the input device often generate deviations that make it less understandable. The errors are usually not a problem in casual communication but make machine processing more complicated. Removal of spelling errors helps with the following processing of the text in natural language. Automatic spelling correction (ASC) is an essential part of the processing of the documents with noisy data in natural language. ASC helps to recover the intended canonical form of the text and improves the quality of the input data for the following natural language processing (NLP) components. It supports processing of digitized documents, automated proofreaders, or information retrieval systems (e.g TREC-5 confusion track [1]). The main motivation for this work is an improvement of the training data for language model for speech recognition [2]. 2. State of the art The task of automatic error-correction is to generate the most likely correct word-for ms given a misspelled word-form [3]. Previous approaches to ASC, such as correcting spelling errors in the Chinese language [4] use classical statistical methods, such as the hidden Markov model, n-gram language model, loglinear regression, or forward-backward algorithm [5]. The usual form of mathematical formalism is a noisy channel proposed by Shannon [6]. Shannon defines the ASC of a possibly incorrect word 𝑠 as finding the best correction candidate 𝑤𝑏 from a list of possible correction candidates 𝑤𝑖 ∈ 𝑊 (𝑊 is a valid word dictionary) with the best unnormalized probability [7]: 𝑤𝑏 = 𝑤m𝑖∈a𝐶x(𝑠)𝑃(𝑠|𝑤𝑖𝑃(𝑤𝑖), The error model 𝑃(𝑠|𝑤𝑖) estimates the probability of unknown string 𝑠 instead of real word 𝑤𝑖. The error model characterizes the spelling correction problem. 103  The context model 𝑃(𝑤𝑖) calculated the probability of the correction candidate according to the surrounding words. A finite-state based system, such as Hunspell 1 proposes a list of correction candidates, and a language model helps to choose the best spelling correction candidate.  The task of spelling correction is similar to machine translation (MT). An ASC trans lates input sentence containing spelling errors into another sentence in a "correct" lang  uage. Machine translation converts a sequence of words in the source language into another  sequence of words in the target language. Formally, MT is the search for the best target seq  uence T given source sequence S using model P [8]:  𝑇𝑏  =  max𝑃(𝑇|𝑆) 𝑇  There are a couple of approaches that used statistical MT for ASC before, such as machine translation spelling for historical texts [9]. [10] attempts to character-level spelling correction. 3. Sequence to sequence spelling correction Statistical machine translation uses classical methods, such as hidden Markov models, n-gram language models, and sentence alignment 2. SMT systems have weaknesses that prevent to reach better results. The statistical approaches can calculate only with relatively short contexts (three items in the input sequence maximum). Neural networks with encoder/decoder architecture brought significant improvement in the performance of SMT. Current deep neural networks [11] can consider a much bro ader context of words or characters. This ability allows us to use an architecture that is based only on neural networks and considers only characters. A neural model can be used to score any given pair of input and output sequences [12].  
一般問答系統常是以從題目原文中尋找最可能的文字段落的方式來生成答案，但是最近 開始有試圖以編碼器(encoder)先抽取題目與問句的隱含意義，再以解碼器(decoder)重新 生成回應語句的趨勢。因為它能不受原始文章使用的文字的限制，甚至可以用完全不同 的說法來回答。因此在本論文中提出了一個基於 BERT 與 Transformer 的“編碼-解碼” 模型，嘗試實現此問答系統。實驗方面使用台達電研究所的公開數據集(Delta Reading Comprehension Dataset, DRCD[4])和『科技大擂臺，與 AI 對話』(Formosa Grand Challenge) 的比賽資料，來訓練模型。由實驗結果發現，我們的系統可以由學習產生答案，並達到 ACC=66.22%，F1=41.16%， EM=18.41%， BLEU=3.98%的效能，嘗試實現可自由產生 回應語句的問答系統。 關鍵詞：自然語言處理、問題回答、序列到序列模型, NLP, QA, Seq2Seq 一、緒論 在自然語言處理中的問題回答系統領域有許多不同類型的文本理解競賽，如科技部 舉辦的『科技大擂臺，與 AI 對話』(Formosa Grand Challenge) 競賽、史丹佛大學發起的 挑戰(Stanford Question Answering Dataset, SQuAD[3])以及分別來自於 CMU、Stanford 和 Mila 的學生推出的新型問答挑戰 HotpotQA[5]等等。 因為問題回答系統領域在國外是一個很熱門的挑戰，所以延伸許多不同的閱讀理解 數據集，如史丹佛的 SQuAD(表 1)，它不同於一般的閱讀理解數據集，在它的答案不是 僅僅一個詞或是物體，而有可能是一段句子，使得答案更難以預測，但是此數據集的問 題大多可以使用關鍵字匹配的方式來進行搜索回答；而 HotpotQA(表 2)的問題被設計成 112  需要以多步推理的方式來回答，所以無法輕易地以關鍵字匹配的方式來解答。另外，此 數據集沒有預設任何的知識圖譜，因此問題內容具有多樣性，使得它更有難度。 由於受到了國外的刺激，我國政府機關也開始積極投入這個領域，所以有了 Formosa Grand Challenge 的比賽，此數據庫它需要有對問題的推理能力還有閱讀的理解能力，且 不同於 SQuAD 和 HotpotQA 的閱讀理解數據集，它無法輕易以搜索答案在文章中的起 始與結束位置得知正確答案，比賽的簡答題的部分需要生成一段完整的句子且需要契合 參考答案。  表 1、SQuAD 閱讀理解數據集範例  C Victoria (abbreviated as Vic) is a state in the south-east of Australia. Victoria is Australia's most densely populated state and its second-most populous state overall. Most of its population is concentrated in the area surrounding Port Phillip Bay, which includes the metropolitan area of its capital and largest city, Melbourne, which is Australia's second-largest city. Geographically the smallest state on the Australian mainland, Victoria is bordered by Bass Strait and Tasmania to the south,[note 1] New South Wales to the north, the Tasman Sea to the east, and South Australia to the west. Q Where in Australia is Victoria located? A1 south-east A2 the south-east of Australia 表 2、HotpotQA 閱讀理解數據集範例  C1 Gorgeous George (album)  Gorgeous George is the third solo studio album by Scottish musician Edwyn Collins.  The album was recorded at New River in London, with Collins acting as the producer.  ⋮  ⋮  C10 Jimmie Ross Jimmie Ross is an American rock guitarist and vocalist who is best known for being a member of Pittsburgh band the Jaggerz, known for their 1970 hit. During the band's initial existence of 1965-1976, the bassist shared the duties of lead vocalist with guitarist Donnie Iris. By the time the Jaggerz regrouped in 1989, Iris was well into his solo career, and Ross became the sole lead vocalist and remained bassist.", " He continues to hold both positions today.  Q Which musician, Edwyn Collins or Jimmie Ross, played the bass guitar?  A Jimmie Ross  表 3、Formosa Grand Challenge 閱讀理解數據集範例(簡答題)  C 請聽這段話，然後回答問題： 科學研究結果顯示，人類種植可可樹的起源可以追溯至大約 3600 年前。研究人員抽絲剝繭，分 析了 200 棵可可樹的基因組之後認定，最早種植可可樹的是現今厄瓜多境內的古瑪雅人。科學 家也指出，早期的可可豆風味相當不同。人工種植可可樹後，人類選擇自己偏好的性狀，然後 不斷繁殖，並持續改良植物的大小和風味等特徵。在培育一代又一代可可樹的過程中，可可豆  113  的風味逐漸改變，苦味變濃，帶給人興奮感的可可鹼含量也逐漸增加。但在此同時，可可樹對 病蟲害的抵抗力也隨之下降，使得它愈來愈珍貴。 Q 為什麼可可樹的價值逐漸增高? A1 可可樹易得病蟲害，種植成本增加，數量減少。 A2 因為可可豆的風味逐漸改變，帶給人興奮感的可可鹼含量逐漸增加，但同時可可樹對病蟲害的 抵抗力也下降了。 為 了 解 決 SQuAD 的 類 型 的 題 目 ， 目 前 的 方 式 有 QANet[1] 和 BERT[2] 與 Transformer[9]組成的 Seq2Seq 模型，它們基於開放性領域的知識庫上建立一個問題回 答系統需要透過既有的知識庫中來進行特徵提取，之後將向量將抽取特徵和相同意義的 資訊建立在一起進而會答問題。而動態融合圖形網路(Dynamically Fused Graph Network for Multi-hop Reasoning, DFGN[17])是為了解決 HotpotQA 而發展出來的架構，它能從多 個片段文字段落動態建構的特徵進行探索，並從特定的文章中逐步找出的相關資訊進行 推理來找尋答案。 在 Formosa Grand Challenge 的比賽中我們測試使用 QANet 和 DFGN 的架構配合 DRCD[4]所訓練出來的模型進行問題的解答但其效果都有限，主要是因為這些過去的任 務主要還是以搜索答案的位置為主，因此如果一個正確答案不在文章中系統便無法回答。 雖然在比賽中還是會遇到單純的分析問題，但在每次比賽過程中會慢慢發現這種分析問 題越來越少，且在決賽時會有簡答題的題型，為此我們認為需要一套可以了解文章內容 並且可以自然答案生成的系統。 在 Formosa Grand Challenge 的比賽中需要了解文章內容進而回答問題，為了配合後 續簡答題的回答策略，所以我們在選擇題的部分先以回答簡答的方式生成答案，再配合 提供的選項來進行匹配。我們嘗試以編碼器先抽取題目與問句的隱含意義，再以解碼器 重新生成回應語句，而不是從題目原文中尋找最可能的文字段落的方式來生成答案最後 在與答案做關聯性的匹配。這不同於過去的知識庫回答系統，他們比起回答一個擁有正 確答案且完整句子，更注重於分析問題和搜尋相關答案。我們實驗了(如圖 1)基於注意 力機制的自然答案生成模型，在系統裡使用多組閱讀測驗問答式的資料進行訓練，並使 用序列到序列(Seq2Seq)的學習框架來完成任務。 圖 1、模型架構示意圖 114  二、相關研究 Seq2Seq 模型架構最初提出是為了機器翻譯[12]，它解決 RNN 不定長度的問題並能 有效地建立一個基於輸入序列用來預測未知輸出序列，在這之後此架構在機器翻譯、寫 作、文本摘要和人機對話等主題有更多的發揮。最初所提出的 Seq2Seq[18]模型想要在 一個完整的輸入序列中找出語意來做向量編碼是一件很困難的事情，特別是對於較長的 輸入，因此提出了注意力機制[19]的 Seq2Seq 模型架構。由於我們用於訓練所使用的資 料經常以較長的輸入為主且需要尋找出關鍵的語意進而回答問題，所以我們傾向使用擁 有注意力機制的 Seq2Seq 模型架構來培訓我們的模型。 過去常用於問題回答的方法從 RNN 架構，到近幾年的 QANet 和 DFGN 等等。QANet 它拋棄了 RNN 的作法並設計了一個模型架構，由多個編碼區塊建立而成的，在每個區 塊中都包含 Multi-Convolution-Layer、Self-Attention Layer[16]和 Feedforward Layer。其 知識庫基本是以詞為單位，使用 200 和 300 不同維度的詞向量(Word2vec[6-8])為基礎， 再透過編碼器來學習文章與問題之間的關聯性，由於使用 Self-Attention 因此對全局的 資訊做有效的處理來得到較好的結果。 為了改善知識庫的部分而提出新穎的預訓練方法 BERT 並配合 Transformer 組成一 個是 seq2seq 模型，BERT 的部分使用 Transformer 的架構來訓練單字級別的知識基礎， 由於使用 Transformer 所以它相較於深層遞迴類神經網路(RNN)更能有效捕捉較長句子 的資訊，使它在問答解題相較於 QANet 有較好的結果。 三、方法 序列到序列模型架構 過去傳統序列到序列(Seq2Seq)模型架構應用在一連串有相關的連續數據中，如語音 數據、影像數據等，因為它具有輸入以及輸出長度不固定的特性以及元素之間的順序關 係。在所有的問答題中它們的文章、問題以及答案的長度並不是等長的，而在輸出答案 的前後順序也會影響著我們得到結果，因此我們採用此架構為我們的訓練框架。 Seq2Seq 分成兩個部分，編碼器和解碼器。編碼器我們使用 Google 的 BERT 預訓練 模型，首先將文章與問題串連後透過 Tokenizer 轉換成輸入序列後再輸入到解碼器得到 編碼資訊。在解碼器的部分我們使用 Transformer 的架構，總共有 6 層，它將從編碼器 所得到的編碼資訊配合上一個輸出來產生解碼器的輸出資訊。最後，將輸出資訊連接到 線性的全連接層透過 softmax 輸出成語字典同樣的維度。 (一) BERT 神經網路模型 BERT 重點在於它能貫穿每層的背景關係來預訓練深度的雙向表示，它與其他模型 不同的地方在於它多個一個機制稱為 Masked LM (MLM)，能隨機地屏蔽部分的輸入 token 只計算被遮蓋掉的 token，目的是根據被遮掉標記的背景關係來預測原始對應的 token，另外使用雙向 Transformer，能讓 MLM 標記可以學習到前後的背景關係。 在實驗中我們先將文字以既有的辭典映射成數字的形式來表示，BERT 模型輸入的 115  地方有兩個輸入，第一個部分是輸入文字序列(Token)，第二個是輸入分割序列(Segment)。 在 Token 的部分給出一個中文單字級別的序列[101, 𝑞0, ⋯ , 𝑞𝐿, 102, 𝑐0, ⋯ , 𝑐𝐿, 102]，它包 含了問題以及文本的文字編碼，問題前以及文本之間和最後都以特殊字元隔開，問題𝑞 和文本𝑐的總長度為𝐿。另外，在 Segment 的部分給入一個由 0 和 1 組的序列，它是根據 文章和問題來做分割的，在這邊我們將問題依照 Token 的數量給予相同的 0，而文章給 予 1，因此最後會形成一個序列[0, ⋯ ,1,1, ⋯ ,1]用來區分文章與問題。最後，在將得到的 文字序列和分割序列透過 Word Embedding 輸入進 BERT Model，得到該序列的編碼資 訊。 (二) Transformer 模型架構 解碼器是使用 Transformer 架構組成的，將訓練答案以跟 BERT 神經網路模型所使 用到的辭典映射成數字的形式[101, 𝑎0, ⋯ , 𝑎𝐿, 102]，之後轉換成訓練對[101, 𝑎0, ⋯ , 𝑎𝐿] 和[𝑎0, ⋯ , 𝑎𝐿, 102]，在訓練過程中將從上一個解碼器的輸出值作為輸入，來訓練下一 個輸出值的機率分布。應用於解碼器的 Transformer 有一個不同，它多增加一個 SelfAttention 單元，由於序列到序列的模型在訓練時的解碼器需要參考上一個輸出的結果來 當作下一個的解碼器的輸入，而編碼器又需要根據 BERT 所分享的資訊來進行運算，因 此這邊會先將上一個的輸出會透過 Self-Attention 計算後再跟 BERT 的輸出合併做運算， 在來導入線性的全連接層透過 softmax 輸出成語字典同樣的維度，最後將輸出的值再透 過字典轉回文字供使用者閱讀。在訓練過程中我們是以字對字的方式去學習，從 input 的每一個字去學習 output 相對應的字的出現機率。  四、實驗結果  (一) 數據集  我們使用兩個數據集來評估我們的方法，第一個是台達電研究院(DRCD)的公開的 數據集，另一個是和『科技大擂臺，與 AI 對話』(Formosa Grand Challenge)的比賽數據 集(如表 4)。 DRCD 是一個中文閱讀理解數據集，它從 2,108 篇維基百科的文章整理出 30,000 多 個問題，人類表現在此數據集的 F1 成績為 93.30%以及 Exact Match 的成績為 80.43%。 Formosa Grand Challenge 它是由中華民國政府部門舉辦的一個大型競賽的中文數據集， 包含了閱讀理解以及單純的問題回答(問題解答不包含在文本之中)，它從網路新聞、古 文以及小說整理出來的 14,000 多個問題。另外，此數據集有 25 題是問答題，由多位專 家來出題，且經過討論後給定多個參考解答，並由評審委員修改。它總共分成 6 次初賽、 加賽、複賽和決賽，因此我們將初賽和複賽歸納至訓練集並隨機抽出 1,000 題來做驗證 並將加賽和決賽的簡答題題目歸類到測試集，在這邊我們捨棄掉大部分決賽的資料是因 為決賽中大量的問題需要從答案來判斷答案是否正確。  表 4、數據集統計  資料集  訓練  驗證  測試  116  DRCD Formosa Grand Challenge  26,932 11,551  3,524 1,000  3,485 1,025  由於 Formosa Grand Challenge 比賽形式以選擇題為主，因此我們將正確的選項內容 當作答案文字內容來進行訓練，另外由於它的資料庫有多餘的換行以及特殊符號，所以 我們也將它刪除掉，以保持續訓練文本的統一性。 (二) 評估指標  在進行多類別的標籤分類中採用分類交叉熵(Categorical Cross-Entropy)來幫助我們 了解訓練上的差異，其方程式如下所示：  𝑛 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠 = − ∑ 𝑦̂𝑖1𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑦𝑖1 + 𝑦̂𝑖2𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑦𝑖2 + ⋯ + 𝑦̂𝑖𝑚𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑦𝑖𝑚 𝑖=1 其中，𝑛是樣本數量，𝑚是分類數量，由於此函數是一個多輸出的 loss 函數，所以計算 出來的值也是多個的。 另外我們使用了幾個指標來幫我們評估我們的方法：第一個是正確度，主要是為了 知道它保存了多少資訊在裡面，其方程式如下所示：  𝑇𝑃 + 𝑇𝑁 𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑦 = 𝑇𝑃 + 𝑇𝑁 + 𝐹𝑃 + 𝐹𝑁  其中 True Positive(TP)是將正確的預測為正確，True Negative(TN) 是將錯誤的預測為錯  誤，False Positive(FP) 是將錯誤的預測為正確最後 False Negative(FN) 是將正確的預測  為錯誤的。  第二個是 F1 值，統計學中用來衡量分類模型精確度的一種指標。F1 值就是精確率  (precision)和召回率(recall)的調和均值。精確率它計算所有正確被檢出的結果(TP)占實際  上被檢索到的(TP+FP)比例，其方程式如下所示：  𝑇𝑃 𝑃 = 𝑇𝑃 + 𝐹𝑃  而召回率它是計算所有正確被檢出的結果(TP)占所有被應該檢索到的(TP+FN)比例。  第三個是 Bilingual Evaluation understudy(BLEU)，評分關鍵在於如何定義生成答案  與參考答案之間的相似度，首先須計算詞在句中的匹配數，其方程式如下所示：  𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑝(𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑) = 𝑚𝑖𝑛⁡{𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡(𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑), 𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑅𝑒𝑓𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡(𝑛 − 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚)} 其中，𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡(𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑)表示詞在生成文中的出現次數，𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑅𝑒𝑓𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡(𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑑)是該參考答  案的最大次數。出現詞的精確度𝑃𝑛定義為：  𝑃𝑛  =  ∑𝐶∈𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠 ∑𝑛−𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚∈𝐶 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑝(𝑛 − 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚) ∑𝐶∈𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑠 ∑𝑛−𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚∈𝐶 𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡(𝑛 − 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚)  透過上述結果來計算 BLEU，其評分方程式如下：  𝑁 𝐵𝐿𝐸𝑈 = 𝐵𝑃 ∗ 𝑒𝑥𝑝 [(∑ 𝑊𝑛𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑝𝑛)] 𝑛=1  117  其中𝐵𝑃是懲罰值，其中𝑊𝑛表示詞出現的權重：  BP  =  {𝐸𝑋𝑃(11−  𝑖𝑓⁡𝑐 𝑟/𝑐)⁡𝑖𝑓⁡𝑐  > ≤  𝑟𝑟}  最後是 Exact Match(EM)，它能讓我們觀察生成出的答案與標準答案是否一致。 (三) 實驗設置  訓練過程中，我們將兩個資料庫的訓練集以及驗證集各自合併一起訓練，一開始先 設定文本和問題的總長度限制在 384，它可以完全覆蓋數據集中 95%的資料，另外將答 案的總長度限制在 30，它能完全覆蓋 98%的答案數據。使用的辭典包含中英文以及各 式標籤總共有 21128 個字。 模型架構使用序列到序列模型，在編碼器使用 BERT 中文預訓練模型，它是由 12 層 雙向 transformer 組成，隱藏層擁有 768 個節點，Multi-head self-attention 的 heads 為 12； 解碼器則是有 6 層雙向 transformer 組成，且每層都共享了編碼器的輸出。 (四) 結果與討論  從損失值(如圖 3)和正確率(如圖 4)可以證明我們的模型架構是可以有效的學習，而 正確率越高表示我們的模型在學習過程中透過由 BERT 給予的知識以及上一次的輸出 能生成出包含正確的資訊越好。我們所提出的方法用於兩個數據集的測試集，在 DRCD 的正確率擁有 66%，F1 評分有 41.16%，EM 評分有 18%；Formosa Grand Challenge 的 正確率有 58%，F1 評分有 37.46%，EM 評分有 16%。如表 5。  資料庫 DRCD Formosa Grand Challenge  表 5、數據集指標  Acc 66.22 58.10  F1 41.16 37.46  EM 18.41 16.35  BLEU 3.98 3.25  value  
This research aims to develop a parallel sentence extraction method for automatically extracting parallel sentence pairs from bilingual comparable corpora based on cross-lingual word embeddings. Our task is to effectively identify matched sentence pairs from a ChineseEnglish corpus with the goal of maximizing F1 score. Our method employs pre-trained, taskspecific, and hybrid (a combination of pre-trained and task-specific) monolingual word embeddings to construct a cross-lingual transformation matrix respectively to transform the word embeddings between the two languages, and develops two search strategies (sequential and exhaustive) for parallel sentence extraction. Our empirical evaluation results suggest that task-specific word embeddings (directly trained from a task-relevant corpus, i.e., 25,695 Chinese and English abstracts of theses) outperforms their counterparts. With respect to the two search strategies, our evaluation results suggest that the exhaustive search strategy attains a higher recall rate; the sequential search strategy is more efficient in time. Both strategies achieve a promising performance, with an F1 score up to 60.18%. 1. Introduction Recently, the tremendous development of neural network techniques for natural language processing has been introduced. Many studies have demonstrated promising results in many important applications, such as neural machine translation [1] and relation extraction [2]. One of the basic requirements for successful neural network model training is a sufficient number of qualified training data examples. In the case of neural machine translation, a bilingual parallel sentence corpus is a required data set. However, many low-resource language pairs (e.g., Chinese- English) or specific domains (e.g., biomedical research) have only limited bilingual parallel sentence corpora, which are not sufficient to support highperformance model construction. Generating parallel sentences by humans is both time consuming and resource intensive. Hence, recent research has focused on how to automatically extract parallel sentences from comparable corpora [3,4,5]. 167  Comparable corpora include non-aligned sentences, phrases or documents that are not an exact translation of each other but share common features such as domain, genre, sampling period, etc. [6]. Compared to parallel corpora, there are more comparable corpora between languages, such as technical documents with bilingual abstracts. Therefore, once the accuracy of the parallel sentence pairs extracted from the comparable corpus can be realized, the problem of lack of a set of parallel sentences as a training corpus for neural machine translation can be effectively relaxed. Recent research on parallel sentence extraction from comparable corpora has shifted from the feature-based approach [6] to the word-embedding-based approach [3,4], due to the advances on cross-lingual word embedding. Several methods for building cross-lingual word embeddings have been proposed [7,8,9]; among them, a popular method is through transformation matrix [8,9]. Most of existing word-embedding-based parallel sentence extraction methods are conducted on European language corpora (such as English and French). Prior research pays less attention to European-Oriental language pairs (e.g., English and Chinese), which is the focus of our study. Although some studies have investigated Chinese word embeddings [10], these studies are not for bilingual parallel sentence extraction. Motivated by this research gap, we attempt to propose a word-embedding-based method for extracting parallel sentence pairs from Chinese-English comparable corpora. Our proposed method consists of three stages. First, we train the word embeddings for each language. Specifically, we obtain pre-trained word embeddings from BERT [11] as well as construct, on the basis of a task-relevant corpus, task-specific word embeddings, using the Word2Vec model [12]. Second, we learn a transformation matrix [8,9] to convert word embeddings from one language to another, thus creating cross-lingual word embeddings to align two different embedding spaces. Finally, with the use of the cross-lingual word embeddings, we compare bilingual sentence pairs by calculating their average word-by-word similarity and then extract parallel sentence pairs with a sequential or exhaustive search strategy. Furthermore, observing the phenomenon that an English sentence (segmented by period or question mark) often corresponds to multiple Chinese sentences (segmented by comma, period, or question mark), our proposed method allows many-to-one alignment, mapping multiple Chinese sentences into a single English sentence. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct several experiments. We collect a Chinese-English comparable corpus that consists of 25,695 abstracts of theses. We then randomly selected 100 pairs (the abstracts of theses in both Chinese and English) in the corpus as the testing set. In this parallel sentence corpus, each 168  comparable document pair contains at least three matched parallel sentence pairs and a number of unmatched sentences. The other 25,595 pairs then serve as the training set for training monolingual word embeddings and constructing cross-lingual transformation matrices for different monolingual word embedding models. Our evaluation results show that our proposed method with task-specific word embeddings and the exhaustive search strategy achieves the highest effectiveness, reaching up to 60.18% in F1 score. The hybrid word embedding model, which combines pre-trained and task-specific word embeddings, is not as effective as the task-specific embedding model. The exhaustive search strategy attains better performance overall, whereas the sequential search strategy achieves a higher precision rate. We also discover the formation (Cbow or Skipgram [12]) of the monolingual word embeddings are sensitive parameters to this extraction task. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, we describe the design of our proposed parallel sentence extraction method. Subsequently, we detail our evaluation design and discuss important experimental results in Section 3. Finally, Section 4 provides a summary of this study. 2. Our Proposed Method Our proposed parallel sentence extraction method is to extract bilingual parallel sentence pairs from a comparable corpus. Because aligned documents in a comparable corpus often share similar themes and contents, parallel sentence pairs may exist in these aligned documents [6]. For example, Chinese technical papers or theses typically contain both Chinese and English abstracts, which usually describe the same or highly similar contents in the two languages. A pair of such aligned documents might include sentences that are exact translations or at least share common contents such as subjects, verbs and objectives. These sentence pairs are essential for training a neural machine translation model or for extracting translations for domain-specific terms. The purpose of this study is to extract all sentence pairs with the same or highly similar content from a set of aligned bilingual documents. The constituent words of a sentence pair are assumed not necessarily consistent with the grammatical order or exact meaning. In order to estimate the similarity of bilingual sentence pairs, we decide to use cross-lingual word embeddings to find out the embedded relations between words and sentences. Accordingly, the research question of this study is formulated as: given a pair of aligned documents written in two different languages, our proposed method is to identify matched sentence pairs in the document pair, with the goal of maximizing the amount of extracted pairs while minimizing the likelihood of extracting wrong pairs. 169  Our proposed method consists of three stages: monolingual word embedding generation, cross-lingual word embedding generation, and parallel sentence extraction. Figure 1 shows the overall process of the proposed method. Figure 1. Overall process of our proposed parallel sentence extraction method. 2.1. Monolingual Word Embeddings Before we link the representations of the two target languages (i.e., Chinese and English in our study), we need to create monolingual word embeddings for the two languages. Specifically, we independently train word embeddings for the source language and the target language, respectively. Several pre-processing steps are involved for the English corpus, including case unification, stemming, and stop word removal. For the Chinese corpus, word segmentation and stop word removal are performed. Because a domain-specific corpus for word embedding training may not contain a sufficient number of paired documents, the quality of the resultant word embeddings may be compromised. In this study, we will incorporate and empirically evaluate BERT pre-trained models [11] in the proposed method. BERT, a language model developed by Google, uses the bidirectional training of Transformer (attention model) to language modelling and has been applied to many natural language tasks. BERT has released language models in more than 100 languages. In our experiments, we will evaluate the following word embedding models: 1. Pre-trained model: monolingual word embeddings directly from BERT pre-trained models. 2. Task-specific model: monolingual word embeddings directly trained from a taskrelevant bilingual training corpus (i.e., 25,595 abstracts of theses). 3. Hybrid model: monolingual word embeddings by concatenating pre-trained and task-specific representations, thus doubling the number of dimensions. 170  It is noted that the pre-trained Chinese BERT model is based on characters [11], i.e. its vocabulary consists of single Chinese characters rather than words. It may not be optimized for our parallel sentence extraction task. 2.2. Cross-lingual Word Embeddings Cross-lingual transfer of word embeddings is intended to establish semantic mapping between words in the source and target languages. In this study, we follow the transformation matrix approach to transform the source embedding space (i.e., word embeddings of the source language) to the target embedding one. We use the objective function of cross-lingual word embeddings from [8] to minimize the sum of the loss between Wx and y: ℓ is the loss function, W is transformation matrix with dd dimensions, x and y are seed word pairs, xi is ith x’s word embedding, yj is jth y’s word embedding, and n is the number of seed word pairs. In this study, we will construct an optimized transformation matrix for each word embedding model (i.e., pre-trained, task-specific, and hybrid model). 2.3. Parallel Sentence Extraction Given a pair of aligned bilingual documents, our goal is to extract all possible semantically equivalent or highly similar sentence pairs in the aligned documents as the extracted parallel sentences. Therefore, we need to estimate the similarity of any pair of bilingual sentences based on the word embeddings of their constituent words. 
Sexually biased cyberhate speech has become a fast-growing problem on PTT (a representative online forum in Taiwan). The applications of computational linguistics like word embeddings would also carry similar biases. This paper analyzed the distribution of word representations of netizens from mu zhu jiao (a cult that often produces misogynistic cyberhate speech). Word vector representations (word2vec) was utilized for scrutinizing semantic representations of texts found on PTT. The findings from the distributed semantic representation of mu zhu jiao implied a sexual bias against them. This paper serves as the first study which investigates the distribution of word representations of the abusive language on PTT forum with an NLP method by taking advantage of both quantitative and qualitative methods. 
In the recent past, deep learning techniques have reached record-breaking performance in a wild variety of applications like automatic speech recognition (ASR). Even though cuttingedge ASR systems evaluated on a few benchmark tasks have already reached human-like 
However, in the transmission environment of speech signals, there exist lots of distortions, such as additive noise, channel mismatch and reverberation, which inevitably decrease the speech signal quality/intelligibility seriously. To overcome these distortions in speech communication, a lot of researchers in recent decades have been devoted to developing speech enhancement (SE) techniques. These SE algorithms can be classified based on whether a learning/training process is involved. For example, if the noise statistics in spectral-subtractive 
One of the primary tasks of a computer-assisted the pronunciation techniques (CAPT) system is mispronunciation detection and diagnosis. Previous research on CAPT mostly relies on a forced-alignment procedure which is usually conducted with the acoustic models adopted from a traditional speech recognition system, in conjunction with a phoneme paragraph, to calculate the goodness of pronunciation (GOP) scores for the phonemes of spoken words with respect to a text prompt. However, the training process of the traditional speech recognition system is complicated. In recent years, the end-to-end speech recognition system has not only greatly simplified this problem, but also has the trend of catching up with 266  traditional speech recognition. In view of this, this thesis sets out to conduct mispronunciation detection and diagnosis on the strength of end-to-end speech recognition. To this end, we design and develop two mispronunciation detection methods: 1) method leveraging a recognition confidence measure; 2) method simply based speech recognition results; A series of experiments showed that leveraging end-to-end speech recognition architecture on mispronunciation detection and diagnosis not only reduced the training steps originally required for traditional speech recognition but also improve the performance of detection and diagnosis significantly. 關鍵詞：端對端語音辨識、聲學模型、發音檢測、發音診斷 Keywords: end-to-end speech recognition, acoustic model, mispronunciation detection, mispronunciation diagnosis. 一、緒論 在國際化的時代中，學習外語變成了不可或缺的一部份。當今的人們至少需要學習兩種 或兩種以上的語言，而語言學習的過程可分為聽、說、讀和寫四個部分，其中以說和寫 最為需要專家知識才得以判斷學習的程度。然而大多數的學習平台較注重於聽力以及閱 讀練習，口說的練習則通常藉由教學影片讓使用者複誦，缺乏即時的回饋；此機制使學 習者較不易發現發音錯誤，對於學習效果有限，因此電腦輔助發音訓練的研究更顯重 要。我們希望電腦具備與專業師資相當的聽力，檢測出學習者的發音錯誤，並且給予回 饋，使學習者能夠藉由反覆的練習使口說能力更為進步。 電腦輔助發音的研究與語音辨識器息息相關，過去研究中主要依賴傳統的深度類神 經網路結合隱藏式馬可夫模型(Deep neural network-hidden Markov model, DNN-HMM) 語音辨識架構。該架構主要由聲學模型(Acoustic model)、語言模型(Language model)、 發音詞典(Pronunciation lexicon)所組成，並且在訓練的過程中，必須先由傳統的高斯混 合 模 型 結 合 隱 藏 式 馬 可 夫 模 型 (Gaussian mixture model-hidden Markov model, GMM-HMM) [1][2]，取得聲音與文字的強制對齊，才得以訓練 DNN-HMM 聲學模型， 而目前常用的類神經網路包含多層感知器(Multiple-layer perceptron, MLP)[1][3]、摺積式 類神經網路(Convolutional neural networks, CNN)[4]、遞迴式類神經網路(Recurrent neural 267  network, RNN)、長短期記憶類神經網路(Long short-term memory, LSTM)[5][6]、時延式 類神經網路(Time delay neural network, TDNN)[7]以及這些類神經網路的延伸。 傳統語音辨識具有下列幾點問題：(1)訓練流程與多個模組有關連，無法清楚知道 哪一部分影響了語音辨識的效果；(2)需要較多的語言及語音知識將詞彙對到相對應的 音素序列來產生發音詞典，以及音素的上下文相關決策樹；(3)聲學模型和語言模型各 自使用不同準則分開訓練，導致語音辨識或其應用任務的最後評估標準不一致。近年來 端對端語音辨識大幅簡化了傳統語音辨識繁複的訓練流程。其主流為連結時序分類 (Connectionist temporal classification, CTC)以及注意力模型(Attention model)兩種方法。 前者 CTC 訓練準則使得聲學模型可直接將聲學特徵僅透過類神經網路輸出對應到的標 籤序列，通常為字符(Character)或音素[5][8]，並且於解碼時可以不需要使用語言模型。 而另一方面，鑑於 CTC 對於端對端語音辨識的成功，且注意力模型已在其他領域被廣 泛應用[9][10]，[11]將注意力模型應用於語音辨識的任務上，並得到與 CTC 模型可比較 的結果，但在少量語料下仍遜於 DNN-HMM 的效能。[12][13]藉由多任務學習的方法結 合 CTC 與注意力模型，希望 CTC-Attention 模型利用 CTC 彌補注意力模型對齊錯誤 (Misalignment)及收斂慢的問題。實驗結果顯示，CTC-Attention 模型可在缺乏語料的情 況下，更接近甚至低於 DNN-HMM 模型的辨識錯誤率。 本篇論文中，主要探討端對端聲學模型如何應用於電腦輔助發音檢測，其主要任務 分 為 錯 誤 發 音 檢 測 (Mispronunciation detection) 以 及 錯 誤 發 音 診 斷 (Mispronunciation diagnosis)。錯誤發音檢測任務希望藉由學習者朗誦第二外語口說教材，在已知朗誦內 容的情況下，由電腦評判學習者的發音是否正確。在過往的發音檢測實驗中，都是利用 傳統聲學模型的事後機率(Posterior probability)、對數相似度值(Log-likelihood) [14]，或 是 GOP [15][16]作為發音檢測特徵，以此判斷發音的對錯。而發音診斷則是當學習者發 音出現錯誤時系統所給予的糾正。假設所希望聽到的是「國語(guo2 yu3)」，但當學習 者唸成「狗語(gou3 yu3)」，系統除了能得知學習者發音出錯，也能反饋學習者的「國 (guo2) 」唸錯成「狗 gou3」了。過往也有學者將發音檢測與診斷視為語音辨識的任務 如[17][18][19]。基於端對端架構的發音檢測方法較為稀少，僅[19]提出以 CTC 進行英 268  文發音檢測與診斷。因此本篇論文將初步探討端對端架構應用於華語 CAPT 任務。實驗 中將分別使用信心分數以及語音辨識結果進行發音檢測。在實驗結果顯示利用信心分數 進行錯誤發音檢測，能夠在錯誤檢測上達到與 GOP 相同的效果，然而整體來說較 GOP 的判斷更為嚴格。另外直接視為語音辨識的方法超越了[19]，使得檢測與診斷都達到最 好的效果。 二、端對端語音辨識技術 隨著近年來端對端語音辨識技術的發展，端對端聲學模型的辨識率已與傳統聲學模型不 相上下，以下將針對近年來主要的端對端語音辨識方法進行說明。  2.1 連結時序分類(CTC)  連結時序分類最早於 2006 年提出[20]，作為取代傳統聲學模型訓練使用交互熵的損失  函數希望最小化− ln Pctc(𝐶∗|𝑋)，即輸出越接近真實標記越好。常見應用於音素辨識以 及手寫辨識。其概念為給定一段長度為 T 的聲學特徵序列 X 及一段長度Ｌ的標籤序列  C，其中𝐶 = {𝑐𝑙 ∈ 𝑈|𝑙 = 1, … , 𝐿}，U 為存在的標籤集合。並且 CTC 在訓練時引入了額 外 的 空 白 標 籤 ， 作 為 標 籤 間 的 分 界 ， 每 個 音 框 的 標 籤 序 列 可 表 示 為 𝑆 = {𝑠𝑡𝜖𝑈 ∪ {< 𝑏𝑙𝑎𝑛𝑘 >}|𝑡 = 1, … 𝑇}，其損失函數可表示為：  𝑇  Pctc(𝐶|𝑋) ≈ ∑ ∏ P(𝑠𝑡|𝑠𝑡−1, 𝐶)P(𝑠𝑡|𝑋)  (1)  𝑠 𝑡=1  其中P(𝑠𝑡|𝑠𝑡−1, 𝐶)代表狀態轉移機率，P(𝑠𝑡|𝑋)則為 Softmax 輸出的結果。  2.2 注意力模型(Attention model)  沿用上一小節中符號設定，注意力模型目標函式可定義為：  𝐿  Patt(𝐶|𝑋) = ∏ P(𝑐𝑙|𝑋, 𝑐1:𝑙−1)  (2)  𝑙=1  269  同樣也希望直接估測聲學特徵對應到標籤的事後機率，然而與 CTC 不同在於注意力模  型並無條件獨立的假設，如上式 2 所示，每一當前輸出皆考慮過去的輸出。P(cl|X, c1:l−1)可 以由下列式子推得：  𝒉𝑡 = Encoder(𝑋)  (3)  𝑒𝑙𝑡 = Attention(𝐪l−1, 𝐡t, 𝑎𝑙−1)  (4)  𝑎𝑙𝑡  =  exp(γ𝑒𝑙𝑡) ∑𝑙 exp(γ𝑒𝑙𝑡)  (5)  𝑇  𝐫𝑙 = ∑ 𝑎𝑙𝑡𝐡t  (6)  t=1  p(𝑐𝑙|𝑋, 𝑐1:𝑙−1) = Decoder(𝐫𝑙, 𝐪𝑙, 𝑐𝑙−1)  (7)  其中𝐡t為 Encoder 的隱藏狀態向量，𝑎𝑙𝑡為注意力權重由𝑒𝑙𝑡經由 Softmax 函數得到，而 γ為  Sharpen Factor，目的在強調權重的分佈，q 代表的是前一個 Decoder 隱藏狀態向量。可  以想成 q 是 Query，h 是 Key Value 然後我們透過任意注意力的機制計算注意力權重𝑎𝑙𝑡， 同樣地，注意力模型訓練的損失函數也希望最小化− ln Patt(𝐶∗|𝑋)。  2.3 CTC-Attention 混合模型(Hybrid CTC-Attention model)  由於注意力模型有著非單調的左到右對齊和收斂較慢的缺點，CTC 則是必須使用額外  的語言模型才能有較好的效果。因此有學者也將兩者結合[12] [13]，以 CTC 給予注意力  模型更強的左到右限制，並在進行光束解碼時(Beam search)同時加入兩種模型的輸出，  以達到更佳的解碼效果。訓練時以𝜆作為兩模型混和參數，其損失函數為：  ℒCTC−ATT = −(𝜆lnPctc(𝐶|𝑋) + (1 − 𝜆)lnPatt(𝐶|𝑋))  (8)  三、端對端語音辨識技術於發音檢測與診斷  基於檢測與診斷可被視為語音辨識任務的想法，一個能夠辨識清楚第一語言者與第二語 言的學習者所發出音素差異的辨識器，將對於發音檢測與診斷有很大的突破。利用這樣 的方法不僅可以同時進行發音診斷與檢測，也省去以往必須再藉由發音分數評估的兩階 段步驟。以下將針對端對端語音辨識發音檢測與診斷方法進行說明。  270  3.1 基於分數之發音檢測  過去進行檢測的首要步驟在於進行強制對齊，無論發出對與錯的音素皆解碼成目標音素，  並標記音素出現於聲音之時間段。在端對端的語音辨識採用光束搜尋算法，輸出時經由  Softmax 函數輸出所有標籤之事後機率，保留每一次輸出前 n 高值直到出現句尾符號  <eos>為止。為了達到在搜尋時能產生我們所想要的目標音素，使用了限制解碼的方法，  即在每一次 Softmax 函數輸出時只關注我們所想要的音素集合，如下圖 1 所示。在解碼  的過程中，找出音素事後機率總和最高之音素組合，作為最終想要的目標音素序列，並  記錄每一音素之事後機率P(𝑐∗|𝑥)。得到音素事後機率可帶入式 9 決策函數D(P(𝑐∗|𝐱))，  使音素事後機率投影到 0-1 的範圍，並根據門檻值𝜏決定發音好壞。  D(P(𝑐∗|𝐱)) =  
We present preliminary results for searching for useful sentences for learning ambiguous words with clustering methods. First, we search for sentences that contain an ambiguous word (the target word, henceforth). To make the extracted sentences useful for learning the target word, we attempt to guide the clustering methods to separate the sentences that carry different senses of the target word into different clusters. We influence the functioning of a clustering method 281  by providing example sentences that carry specific senses of the target word. In the terminology of machine learning technology, we label a sentence with the sense of the target word in the sentence. Two sample labeled sentences for the ambiguous word “bank” follow. 1.“financial institution”: Mr. Black deposit the money in the Citi bank. 2.“place”: Along the bank of the Charles river, you may see the MIT campus. Assume that we can collect a large number of sentences that contain the target word, for which we need sentences that use a specific sense of the target word. Assume that we are willing to label a few of these original sentences as we described above. A clustering algorithm may employ the labeled sentences to build clusters of sentences for our needs. The algorithm may take advantage of the labeled sentences as informative seeds for initializing the clusters. In addition, when selecting the (unlabeled) sentences from the clustered sentences as the final output, the labeled sentences may also provide guidance for selecting the sentences of “correct” senses. If a cluster has many labeled sentences of a specific sense, the (unlabeled) sentences in this cluster might have the same label of the sample sentences. Furthermore, to select and output the (unlabeled) sentences in this cluster, we may consider the (unlabeled) sentences that are closer to the sample sentences. Assume that we may find thousands of sentences that use a target word, assume that we provide a certain number of labeled sentences to guide a clustering algorithm, assume that we cluster the thousands of sentences into tens of clusters, and assume that we select just tens of sentences from these tens of clusters. If our clustering methods are good and if we select sentences from a cluster conservatively, we may achieve high precision in the final selection of the unlabeled sentences for the target word. Empirical evaluations reported in this paper show promising results. Not surprisingly, we found that it was relatively easier to achieve better results for homonym than for polysemy. We hope our methods can be useful for building corpora for learning ambiguous words. 282  關鍵詞：多義詞，一詞多義，同形異義，分群模型，詞向量，句向量 Keywords: lexical ambiguity, polysemy, homonymy, clustering, word vector, sentence vector 一、 緒論 多義詞存在於大多數的語言當中，Bruce Britton[1]曾保守估計至少 32%的英文單詞存在 著不只一個義項，且最常使用的前一百名英文單詞中，高達 93%的單詞是多義詞，可見 多義詞與人類的生活是息息相關。此外，多義詞還能細分成一詞多義(polysemy)與同形 異義(homonymy)[2]，前者定義為其義項類別彼此有關聯，後者則是彼此無關聯。以 “cup” 為例，茶杯的 “cup” 與獎盃的 “cup” 是一詞多義，而銀行的 “bank” 與河岸的 “bank” 則是同形異義。 以往若要瞭解詞彙的其他義項，必須透過辭典進行查找，但是辭典中提及的義項大 多是較有規範化的使用方式，其內容較少包含口語化的義項類別，且礙於篇幅關係，並 非所有義項都能有足夠的例句讓使用者瞭解該義項的使用方式。此外，編輯辭典耗時費 力，實在難以符合語言發展的速度。 隨著網路與資料庫的發展，有許多的數位檢索系統扮演著新型態的辭典供使用者查 詢。以「教育部重編國語辭典修訂本」[3]及「萌典」[4]為例，藉由線上檢索的功能或許 能改善部分傳統辭典的問題，但仍觀察到某些較新興的詞彙，如「亞馬遜」不存在於資 料庫內，亦或者例句數量較少，難以讓使用者清楚明白適用該義項之句型。再以「中央 研究院現代漢語標記語料庫」[5]為例，其搜尋結果沒有顯示出義項類別，因此仍必須透 過人工方式逐一閱讀。 過去曾有人文學者對於特定詞彙以人工方式，透過其在特定領域的專業知識，判別 出過往辭典中未收錄的義項類別，例如吳美嫺[6]、林香薇[7]、蔡宛玲[8]與許尤芬[9]等 人的相關研究。在資訊領域，Navigli[10]曾提出對於消除歧義有監督式、非監督式及以 知識為本等三種實驗方式，而 Lesk[11]為首位提出以知識為本的消歧方式，透過計算目 標詞彙所在上下文與目標詞彙在知識庫中各義項類別的覆蓋程度，對目標詞彙進行消歧。 因此本研究嘗試透過文字向量化的方式，將大量的中文語料與少數使用者提供之參 考句轉換成向量，再以分群模型演算法將相同義項類別之相關句進行區隔，同時搭配 purity[12]分數尋找出最適合該多義詞之分群模型，最後以實驗中設計的方法擷取出一定 數量的代表句。透過分群模型，提供例句供使用者閱讀。 283  二、研究方法 在本研究中，主要分為六個階段，分別如圖一所示。 圖一、研究方法流程圖 （一）、語料搜集 本研究所使用的語料主要是中文維基百科所提供的開放資料[13]、教育部 AI CUP 2019 新聞立場檢索技術第一階段所提供的新聞資料[14]，以及由使用者自行提供的參考句。 維基百科是個開放式的協同寫作平台，其內容是由眾多使用者與專業人士一同撰寫 而成，因此不會受限於個人或團體的寫作風格與觀點，其收錄內容不僅包含傳統百科所 蒐集的資訊，由於線上協同寫作的關係，其內容更容易與時俱進收錄到較新的詞條訊息。 然而，維基百科雖然是開放式協同合作的資料，但其終究是屬於百科類文體，受限 於此，可能導致我們所在意的目標詞彙的義項比例分布不均勻。因此，在實驗中我們加 入了約十萬篇的新聞語料藉以平衡這樣的問題。新聞語料內容來自中國時報、自由時報、 蘋果日報、聯合報與 TVBS 等媒體，內容橫跨各種議題，包含政治、經濟、教育、…等 等，用以增加語料的多元性。 此外，研究中亦會請使用者提供具有人工標記義項類別之句子，不僅為語料增加更 多的文字風格外，也能作為後續實驗方法的依據之一。 （二）、語料前處理 不論是維基百科或者是新聞語料，都夾雜了或多或少的額外訊息，因此在進行實驗前必 須費工處理以得到乾淨的文本。另外，由於中文的書寫結構與英文不同，因此通常需要 額外的方式來加以處理。 以維基百科為例，我們首先使用 WikiExtractor[15]從原本取得之 XML 格式的資料 內容中過濾掉大量不需要的資訊，僅留下條目標題、條目超連結、條目編號及條目正文 等資訊，接著透過 OpenCC[16]將原本繁簡混雜的內容統一轉換成臺灣繁體，舉例來說， OpenCC 會將原始簡體內容的「光盘」轉換成臺灣使用的「光碟」。最後再去除剩餘不需 284  要的標籤與資訊，最終得到我們所需要的內容。  將所有語料都處理乾淨後，我們首先必須做斷句的工作，研究中是以逗號、句號、  驚嘆號與分號這四種標點符號做為句子之間的斷點，我們將斷開後的句子稱為例句，表  一說明實驗中使用的維基百科與新聞語料的數據統計。  表一、語料數據統計  項目  中文維基百科  新聞語料  條目總數  1,092,447 篇  98,250 篇  例句總數  26,815,431 句  5,489,253 句  例句平均長度  15 字  15 字  條目平均例句數  25 句  56 句  在斷句之後必須處理中文的斷詞問題，因為中文不像英文是以空白做為詞與詞之間  的分隔，因此必須依賴斷詞器達到詞彙分割的目的。實驗中我們比對了中研院 CKIP 中  文斷詞系統[17]與 Jieba 斷詞器繁體版[18]兩者間的差別，從維基百科中隨機抽樣一百句  例句並透過人工斷詞作為標準答案，透過萊文斯坦距離(Levenshtein distance)計算兩者與  標準答案間的相似度，最終 Jieba 得到較高的相似度，因此我們採用 Jieba 斷詞器繁體版  來處理這樣的問題，藉由 Jieba 能夠有效率地將個別詞彙分開，以利後續工作進行。  （三）、相關句擷取  在本研究中，目標詞彙指的是具有多重義項類別的詞彙，例如「亞馬遜」可以代表亞馬 遜雨林，也可以代表電商亞馬遜公司。而相關句是指包含目標詞彙的例句。此外，在現 實情況下，一句例句所提供的語境可能無法準確地判斷出目標詞彙在此例句中所代表的 義項，因此我們將相關句的左右例句也加入相關句中，亦即一筆相關句中包含三句例句， 希望藉由增加相關句的長度藉以提供更豐富的語境資訊。然而因為原始語料標點符號的 錯用，可能導致即使已經增加相關句長度，其相關句仍然過短無法提供足夠的語境資訊 的問題，因此我們根據相關句中例句的長度來進行篩選，將語境相對貧乏的相關句剔除。  （四）、分群模型建立  在建立分群模型之前，必須將處理好的語料轉換成向量的形式，實驗中使用的向量化模 型如表二所示，其中包含四種模型，各模型皆有七種向量維度及七種 window size 作為 參數調整。  285  表二、向量化模型表  Embeddings  Models  Vector size  Window size  doc2vec[19]  PV-DBOW PV-DM  5, 10, 20, 50,  2, 5, 10, 15,  average word2vec[20]  CBOW skip-gram  100, 200, 500  20, 30, 50  而 分 群 模 型 則 使 用 了 K-means[21] 、 hierarchical clustering[22] 、 spectral  clustering[23][24][25][26]與 BIRCH clustering[27]等方法，而分群數量則有[2, 10]等 9 種  組合。  其中，起始點的選擇方式對於 K-means 的分群結果會有重要的影響，若起始點的選  擇與語料數據的分布情形差異過大，會造成效果較差的分群結果。在實驗中，我們採用  了三種不同的起始點選擇方式，以下簡略說明：  方法 1： 以 K-means++[28]作為起始點選擇。有別於原始的 K-means 演算法，起始  點是隨機選取的，K-means++會選擇離當前起始點最遠的點作為新群集的  起始點。  方法 2： 先將參考句分群，再以分群後的群集中心作為相關句分群的起始點。主要  是將由維基百科與新聞語料組成的相關句與使用者提供的參考句分別進  行分群工作，因為參考句是由使用者提供，能夠掌控目標詞彙不同義項的  例句數量，降低因為例句比例差異造成分群錯誤的問題。  方法 3： 依據使用者提供之參考句的義項類別將參考句分群，再以群集中心做為起  點。不同於方法 2 是將參考句全部一起進行分群，而是根據人工標記之義  項類別各自對參考句進行分群，再將各自分群的群集中心合併，作為相關  句的分群起始點。此外，由於是根據義項類別做分群，實驗中的分群數目  設置為義項類別的倍數。以目標詞彙「亞馬遜」為例，其包含雨林與電商  兩種義項，則分群數目設值為 2 的倍數，即 2、4、6、…等。  此外，hierarchical clustering 的距離計算分別採用了 ward’s linkage、complete linkage、  average linkage 與 single linkage 等四種方式。  286  （五）、分群模型評估  如同第四小節所述，本實驗主要採用分群模型判別相關句目標詞彙的義項，並採用了多  種分群模型與不同的參數設置模型，目的是要找到一個相對好的模型。實驗中我們採用  purity 作為評估指標，主要是以使用者提供的參考句計算 purity。因為參考句包含人工 標記的義項類別，能夠讓我們判斷該群集是以目標詞彙的何種義項為大宗。  若一個群集內的資料其實際類別彼此相同，則 purity 分數高，反之則低，而分數區  間是介於 0 到 1 之間。purity 公式如(1)所示，其中 N 代表資料點總數，Ω = {𝜔1, 𝜔2, … , 𝜔𝑘}  代表 k 個群集，𝐶 = {𝑐1, 𝑐2, … , 𝑐𝑗} 代表 j 個類別。  
Human perception on the singing voice differs with the factors of the singing voice and the subjects. On one hand, the background knowledge influences the understanding of voice for each subject. On the other hand, the difference of the voices presented to the subjects also affects the perception. In this paper, we discuss two factors reflecting on the similarity before and after singing voice conversion: prosodic features and subjects’ familiarity to the singers. Three experiments were conducted. The first experiment tested the subjects’ ability to identify the singer. The second experiment synthesized the singing voice with different singers’ prosodic features, and let the subjects score the similarity. The third experiment presented timbre-converted singing voice with different combinations of prosodic features from two singers to the subjects for them to judge the similarity to the target singer. The results show that, first, the number of prosodic features contained in the synthesized voice is positively correlated with the scores in identification and similarity. Also, subjects who are more familiar personally with the target singers have better identification scores than target-unfamiliar subjects on the timbre-converted singing voices. Keywords: Singing voice conversion, Prosody, Human perception, Voice identity. 296  1. Introduction In the task of voice conversion, subjective tests examining quality and similarity [1] are used to evaluate the synthesized results from human perception. The quality test asks the subjects to score how great the quality of the converted result is, while the similarity test questions about how similar the result is, comparing to the target speaker. The acoustic characteristics of voice individuality can be described through timbre, pitch, intensity, duration, etc. [3]. Hence, the synthesis of the voice considers not only the timbre but also other prosodic features such as pitch, duration or intensity [4]. What effects the modification of these features have on the identification of speakers [5] and how these features represent individuality [6,7,8] have also been discussed in previous works. Studies in voice perception have investigated on the acoustic features affecting voice identity with experiments using the correlation analysis and multidimensional scaling techniques [12]. The modifications of acoustic features [13,16] and vocal identity aftereffects [14] are also used to determine the relative importance factors on humans’ ability of speaker identification. While some studies on the contributing features of voice identity contain timbre and other prosodic features [12,13,16], this paper investigates only on the prosodic features in order to find out the essential prosodic parameters for changing the perceived singer identity. In addition, since that the majority of the voice conversion tasks only focus on the development of the timbre conversion [1], using the source prosodic features for the synthesized voice, we therefore want to examine how changing the prosodic features might potentially help convert the voice more convincingly, and how that would reflect on the subjective similarity test. The result of a subjective test depends on the background knowledge of the participants. When the subjects know more about the audio presented, the knowledge might influence the test performance; in [2,15], the difference of the human ability on identifying familiar and unfamiliar voices was well discussed. Therefore, we would also like to examine how familiarity to the speaker reflects on the similarity performance in tasks related to the singing voice conversion. In this paper, we follow a similar experiment design of perception test in [11] by mixing up the features of source, target or converted singing voice to discuss the effects of sound 297  modification on the perception. Three listening tests for the participants are designed in order to find out the effects due to the subjects’ familiarity to the singers and due to the changes of prosodic features. Section 2 describes the experiments designed. Section 3 discusses the listening test results and the effects of different factors. Section 4 then gives the conclusion. 2. Methods 2.1 Recordings The recordings consist of parallel singing voice data sung by two female singers, F1 and F5. The recording process was conducted in a quiet room with a microphone, an RME interface and Cubase software. Each singer sang 9 pop songs, a total length of 17 minutes. These recordings were further tuned using Cubase and cut into phrases, each phrase ranging from 7 to 15 seconds. 2.2 Participants We invited 17 participants to the listening test using their own laptops and headphones. 53% had a music training background (have learned musical instruments for more than one year) and 47% did not. 35% of participants were familiar with the voices of the two singers before the listening test, 24% knew one of them, and 41% of subjects were unfamiliar with the voices of the two singers. 47% of subjects were familiar with singer F1, and 47% of subjects were familiar with F5. 2.3 Experiment design Before starting the test, all the participants were presented with a one-minute singing clip from both singers in order to be acquainted with both singers’ singing voices. These audio files could be replayed during the test if the participants wanted to re-learn the singer’s voice. 2.3.1 Singer identification In the first task, we aimed to examine the participants’ ability to distinguish signers from their singing voice. The participants were presented with 6 phrases from each singer in random order. The participants would then be asked to distinguish whether the audio presented was sung by F1 or F5. 2.3.2 Identification and similarity task of the timbre-carrying singer 298  The second task was designed to examine how the prosodic and timbre features would influence human perception, and how the changes of prosodic features would affect the identification task. We fixed the timbre of one singer and selectively replaced the expressive features (pitch, intensity, and duration) from the singer to the other singer. Out of the three expressive features, there were 8 kinds of combinations for feature replacement. For each combination, there were 4 examples (2 examples for a singer). The feature replacement combinations and their nomenclature are summarized in Table 1. Singer A indicates the original timbre-carrying singer, and singer B is the singer whose features are used to substitute singer A’s features. In total, 32 audio files were thus prepared for participants to listen to.  The fundamental frequency and spectral envelope of a singing voice were extracted with the WORLD vocoder [10]. We used the fundamental frequency as the pitch feature. The spectral envelope was further compressed into mel-cepstral coefficients, with the first dimension defined as the intensity feature and the other dimensions defined as the timbre feature in this experiment. The duration features were modified through the dynamic time wrapping (DTW) conducted on the timbre feature if the selected identity was singer B; the pitch and intensity of the target would be adjusted to the source length through DTW if the duration identity was singer A. The selected and modified features were then synthesized into the singing voice with the vocoder.  Table 1. Feature Combination of Synthesized Voice  Nomenclature Timbre  AAAA  Singer A  AAAB  Singer A  AABA  Singer A  AABB  Singer A  ABAA  Singer A  ABAB  Singer A  ABBA  Singer A  ABBB  Singer A  Pitch Singer A Singer A Singer A Singer A Singer B Singer B Singer B Singer B  Intensity Singer A Singer A Singer B Singer B Singer A Singer A Singer B Singer B  Duration Singer A Singer B Singer A Singer B Singer A Singer B Singer A Singer B  For each audio file that was listened to, the participants were asked to perform singer identification and score the similarity. The identification task asked which singer sang the audio, in the format of ABX test, while the voice of the two singers were introduced in the  299  section before the first experiment (2.3.1). The similarity test asked how similar the audio was to the timbre-carrying singer with the minimum opinion score (MOS).  2.3.3 Identification and similarity task of the timbre-converted singer  Existing voice conversion algorithms mostly apply original dynamic changes of source prosodic features on the synthesis results with the timbre converted through models [1]. The third task was to examine how the conversion of the expressive features may play some roles in the similarity test. Based on the timbre converted from the source to the target using a Gaussian mixture model [9], the experiment here tested 8 kinds of feature combinations on pitch, intensity, and duration, shown in Table 2, to test the effects of the prosodic features on human perception. The source singer is F5 and the target singer is F1. Each type contains 3 different singing phrases with timbre converted, so 24 files in total were presented to the participants.  The usage of each expressive feature follows a similar procedure in Sec. 2.3.2. The frame-based spectral features of the source singer were converted with a Gaussian mixture model [9]. The expressive features would be used directly without modification if the features’ assigned identity was the source. If the target’s duration feature was used, all the other features would be adjusted to match the target’s length based on the DTW alignment of the spectral features of the two singers. The target’s pitch and intensity could be extracted with the vocoder, and the length would be adjusted through DTW if the duration scale was assigned as the source.  Table 2. Origin of Features of Synthesized Voice  Nomenclature Timbre  CSSS  Converted  CSST  Converted  CSTS  Converted  CSTT  Converted  CTSS  Converted  CTST  Converted  CTTS  Converted  CTTT  Converted  Pitch Source Source Source Source Target Target Target Target  Intensity Source Source Target Target Source Source Target Target  Duration Source Target Source Target Source Target Source Target  For each audio file they listened to, the participants were also asked two questions,  300  identification and similarity, with the identification task forcing the listener to determine which singer produced the audio, and the similarity task asking the listener to score how similar the audio was to the target singer.  3. Results of experiments  3.1 Singer identification  The performance of the subjects on the identification task of the original singers is shown in Table 3. The overall accuracy of all subjects is 80.39%. When the subjects are more familiar with the singers before the experiment, they will perform better on the identification task. The subjects who knew both singers achieved 95.83% accuracy, while the subjects not knowing any of the singers had 64.29% accuracy. The subjects with a music background were 8% more accurate than the subjects without a music background.  Table 3. Identification accuracy % (mean ± std)  All subjects All Familiarity to the singers Knowing 0 singer Knowing 1 singer Knowing 2 singers Music background Without music background With music background  80.39±20.61 64.29±20.81 85.42±14.23 95.83±6.97 76.04±23.33 84.26±18.37  3.2 Identification and similarity task of the timbre-carrying singer The modification of the expressive features from the original singer could change the perceived singer identity. Using 8 combinations of expressive features, without the conversion of timbre in the singing voice, the scores for each type (4 examples) were first averaged for each subject. Then, for each type, the average scores of the 17 subjects were analyzed to obtain the mean and standard deviation. The identification and similarity scores for each combination of expressive features are shown in Figure 1. As can be seen from Figure 1, when some prosodic features are replaced, the identification score and the similarity score do decrease, especially AABB, ABAA, and  301  ABBB have the lowest scores compared with AAAA. The reason why the scores of AAAB and ABAB are comparable to the scores of AAAA could be that the two singers sang in a similar style in the audio files randomly selected for these types, so that after replacing one or two expressive features, the clip could still be recognized as the original singer.  Figure 1. The identification score (%) and similarity score (mos) of the timbre-carrying singer with changed prosodic features.  The dependency of the scores upon the number of replaced expressive features was analyzed and shown in Table 4. Category 0 denotes AAAA while category 3 (all 3 expressive features were replaced) denotes ABBB. Category 1 (1 expressive feature was replaced) consists of AAAB, AABA, and ABAA, while category 2 (2 expressive features were replaced) consists of AABB, ABAB, and ABBA. For categories 2 and 3, the mean and standard deviation of 17 subjects and 3 feature combinations were calculated. It is clear that the identification and similarity scores decrease as more changes were made to the original singer’s expressive features. When the number of replaced features increases from 0 to 3, the identification score drops from 79.41% to 67.65% and the similarity score drops from 3.81 to 3.21.  Table 4. Identification and similarity scores (mean ± std) of the timbre-carrying singer with different numbers of replaced expressive features  Number of replaced features 0 1 2 3  Identification Score % 79.41±28.23 75.00±23.45 71.08±28.88 67.65±30.32  Similarity Score 3.81±0.72 3.72±0.75 3.47±0.71 3.21±0.78  Table 5 shows the results with a specific expressive feature replaced. There are 3 302  expressive features: pitch, intensity and duration. For each feature, the mean and standard deviation of 68 samples (17 subjects and 4 feature combinations) were calculated. For example, for types AABA, AABB, ABBA, and ABBB, the “intensity” was replaced. Compared to duration, changes in pitch and intensity have lower scores and greater reduction from AAAA, indicating a greater impact on human perception of singer individuality.  Table 5. Identification and similarity scores (mean ± std) of the timbre-carrying singer with  a specific expressive feature replaced  Features changed Pitch Intensity Duration  Identification Score % 70.96±26.39 68.01±28.27 74.63±28.49  Similarity Score 3.49±0.73 3.36±0.73 3.54±0.78  Since each subject had different levels of prior knowledge about the singing voices that were presented, we divided the subjects into 3 categories: familiar with none, 1, or 2 of the singers before the experiments. The score distributions are depicted in Figure 2. Over all, the scores increase when the number of familiar singers increases. In other words, for the cases where timbre was unchanged but some expressive features were changed, the subjects familiar with more singers had better performance on singer recognition. Even with the changes in expressive features, the subjects who know the two singers have an identification score of higher than 70%, suggesting that the subjects tend to rely on the timbre as the cue to identify the singer.  Figure 2. The identification score % and similarity score of the timbre-carrying singer with changed prosodic features and the number of familiar singers. 
In this research work, we build a speaker recognition system based on the x-vector framework for speaker verification. During training, we propose to use the triplet loss to increase the distance between the embedding vectors from different speakers in high-dimensional space. During recognition, we use the European distance between test-utterance embedding vector and enrolled-speaker embedding vector for similarity measure, thus predicting the enrolled speaker with the minimum distance. The proposed system is evaluated with VoxCeleb speaker recognition dataset. The test set consists of utterances from 1,251 test speakers. The proposed 310  model achieves the top-1 recognition accuracy of 59.57% and the top-5 accuracy of 80.32%. 關鍵詞：時延神經網路、語者辨識、三元組損失 Keywords: TDNN, Speaker Recognition, Triplet Loss 一、緒論 隨著大數據的時代到來，深度學習成為時下的熱門議題之一，並慢慢走入我們的生活之 中，而身分驗證與識別就是一個主要的應用範疇，以前只出現在電影裡的生物特徵辨識 系統也逐漸可以在我們的日常生活中發現蹤跡，如聲紋這類生物特徵不似傳統的鑰匙或 是遙控器，可能會有遺失的風險存在，基於聲紋的語者辨識不需攜帶額外的物品，僅需 聲音便可以進行辨識，達到更便利、安全的效果。 其中，語者驗證是當前熱門的研究項目，說話人須先宣稱其身份，再由語者驗證系統進 行比對，做出是否通過驗證的決斷。然而在一些實際的應用上，人們開始追求指令簡明 與便捷性，若能去除宣稱身份的步驟，便可讓使用者的體驗更佳。如智慧家庭產品許多 都採取聲控的方式來下達指令，除了辨識使用者所下達的指令之外，更希望能對下達指 令的人進行辨識，來達到一些簡單客製化回應的效果，例如我們若能分辨下達指令的是 家中哪位成員，便能提供適合且客製化的回應給使用者，就像是一個簡單的播音樂指令， 對家中長者可以播放台語經典歌曲，而年少者則可播放時下偶像團體的歌曲。 然而，在實際使用時需要辨識的語者或是說註冊者，大多時候會與訓練時所使用的訓練 資料中的語者不同，所以無法簡單地使用基於 Softmax 的分類器來處理，為了解決這個 問題，在本論文中，我們以 x 向量 [1] 架構為基礎，並透過表徵學習 (Representation Learning) [2] 的方式，從時延神經網路 (Time Delay Neural Network, TDNN) [3] 中取得 嵌入向量 (Embedding Vector) ，並藉由對註冊語音之嵌入向量進行註冊的動作，為註冊 者建立語者模型，在測試語音進入系統時，會對測試語音之嵌入向量與所有註冊者之語 者模型進行相似度比對，並選出最相似者做為系統判定測試語音所屬之語者。為了使準 確率提升，我們不僅使用交叉熵損失 (Cross Entropy Loss) 來訓練模型，也採用三元組 損失 (Triplet Loss) 來對模型進行調適，使不同語者的嵌入向量在高維空間有更好的判 別性。 311  本文主要分為五個部份：第一部份為緒論；第二部份為相關研究的回顧與探討；第三部 份為研究方法與流程，介紹使用資料集、資料前處理、模型架構、訓練流程以及註冊與 相似度比對等流程；第四部份則為實驗結果與分析，說明實驗環境與設定，並根據實驗 結果進行分析；第五部份為結論。 二、相關研究 在語者辨識與驗證技術發展之中，高斯混和模型 (Gaussian Mixture Model) [4] 扮演十分 重 要 的 角 色 ， 而 高 斯 混 和 模 型 - 通 用 背 景 模 型 (Gaussian Mixture Model-Universal Background Model, GMM-UBM) [5] 更是一個重要的應用，通用背景模型是一種大型的 高斯混和模型，並非像傳統高斯混和模型針對每個語者訓練一個高斯混和模型來表示語 者的特徵分佈，而是先使用所有語者的資料去訓練一個通用的背景模型，表示出語者無 關 (Speaker-independent) 的特徵分佈，然後再使用指定語者的資料去調適背景模型產生 語者模型。之後，為了解決在不同錄音裝置上，同語者的錄音聽起來會不一樣的問題， 聯合因素分析 (Joint Factor Analysis, JFA) [6] 提出將 GMM-UBM 所得出超級向量 (Supervector) 進行因素分析，可分為通道子空間 (Channel Subspace) 與語者子空間 (Speaker Subspace)，JFA 相信若能去除通道因素的影響，那我們就能去除不同錄音條件 的影響，使系統更強健。然而在[7] 中卻發現，通道部份仍然包含語者資訊，為了解決 這個問題，提出了一種將語者空間與通道空間整合為單一的全局差異空間 (Total Variability Space)，而對應的全局因子則被稱為 i-vector (Identity Vector) [8]。在 2010 年 至 2016 年之間的語者驗證系統幾乎都採用 i-vector 或以此為基礎進行改進。 另一方面，由於深度學習 (Deep Learning) 在圖像辨識的成功，人們也嘗試將深度類神 經網路應用在語者辨識的任務上。在 2014 年 d-vector [9] 使用四層 256 維隱藏層的多層 感知器進行表徵學習，並從最後一層隱藏層擷取出嵌入向量，這也啟發了其他使用卷積 神經網路 (Convolutional Neural Network, CNN) [10] 或是遞迴神經網路 (Recurrent Neural Network, RNN) [11] 開發語者驗證系統的想法。到了 2016 年，使用時延神經網 路 [3] 的 x-vector [1] 被提出，它最重要的特色在於對訓練音檔進行如：加入噪音、迴 響、變速等數據增強 (Data Augmentation) [12]，使訓練資料呈倍數成長並獲得超越當時 其他系統的強健性。如今 x-vector 已經是目前最主流的語者識別與驗證系統之一，本論 312  文的語者辨識系統也以 x-vector 為基礎進行改進。 三、研究方法與流程 （一）、VoxCeleb 資料集 VoxCeleb 資料集可分為 VoxCeleb1 [13] 與 VoxCeleb2 [14]，兩者皆為文本無關 (TextIndependent) 語音資料集，內容源自於 Youtube 中名人的影片，因此內容可能會有背 景雜音甚至是其他人說話的聲音，資料集除了提供語者身分之外，也提供該語者國籍 以及性別，兩資料集的資料分佈狀況如表一。VoxCeleb1 官方提供兩種資料集分割方 式，語者驗證分割 (Verification Split) 與語者識別分割(Identification Split) ，兩種分割 包含之音檔相同，差別僅在於依任務目的不同而把資料集進行不同的切割分法，其中 語者驗證分割之驗證集與測試集中的語者不重複，而語者識別分割之訓練集、驗證 集、測試集中的語者相同。  表一、VoxCeleb 資料分佈表  VoxCeleb1  VoxCeleb2  驗證分割  辨識分割  dev  test  train  dev  test  dev  test  語者數 1,211  40  1,251 1,251 1,251 5,994  118  音檔數 148,642 4,874 138,361 6,904 8,251 1,092,009 36,237  在資料使用上，我們使用 VoxCeleb2 驗證集來訓練模型、使用 VoxCeleb1 識別分割的  測試集來進行語者辨識的效能評估、使用 VoxCeleb1 驗證分割的測試集來進行語者辨  識，更進一步的來研究是否語者驗證的準確率是否與語者辨識正相關。  （二）、數據增強 我們採用數據增強 (Data Augmentation) 的技術，對資料加入噪音、或是對音檔加入迴  313  響，不僅僅增加資料的數量與多樣性，也更能使系統更加強健。我們使用 MUSAN 語 料庫 [12] 加入噪音與利用房間脈衝響應 (Room Impulse Response) 加入迴響來進行數 據增強。而 MUSAN 語料庫內容包含三個部分，分別為演說 (Speech) 、音樂 (Music) 與噪音 (Noise) ，演說部分的內容為朗讀書本某章節內容的語音或是美國聽 證會或辯論會的公開演說；音樂部分則涵蓋古典與現代流行樂；噪音部分包含各類常 見噪音，但不包括明顯可辨識說話內容的人聲。在產生數據增強後的音檔後，因為運 算資源的考量，我們並不會全部使用，而是隨機取 1,000,000 個數據增強的音檔與原始 音檔進行模型的訓練。 （三）、聲學特徵與正規化 我們所使用的聲學特徵為梅爾倒頻譜係數 (Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficient, MFCC) ， 是一種針對人耳聽覺而設計的一種聲學特徵，由於人耳對不同頻率的聲音有不同的敏銳 程度，故我們在頻率座標軸依梅爾刻度 (Mel Scale) 配置在低頻較密集、高頻較稀疏的 三角帶通濾波器 (Triangular Bandpass Filters)，表示人耳對低頻聲音感受較為敏銳但面 對高頻聲音便相較為遲鈍。梅爾倒頻譜係數聲學特徵處理流程如圖一，語音訊號經過預 強調(Pre-emphasis)，來提升高頻的部份，始信號的頻譜變得平坦。之後將多個取樣點集 合成一個觀測單位，稱為音框(Frame)，並對每一個音框乘上漢名窗(Hamming window) 來增加音框左端與右端的連續性。由於訊號在時域上的變化很難看出訊號的特性，因此 會先經由快速傅立葉轉換(Fast Fourier Transfrom, FFT) 將訊號從時域信號轉換到頻域信 號上，以能量分佈來觀察。再將得到的頻譜乘上多組三角帶通濾波器，得到每一個濾波 器 輸 出 的 對 數 能 量 (Log energy) 後 ， 將 對 數 能 量 經 離 散 餘 弦 轉 換 (Discrete Cosine Transform, DCT)後即可得梅爾倒頻係數。 314  圖一、梅爾倒頻譜係數聲學特徵處理流。  由於實際應用時收音容易受環境以及錄音裝置等因素干擾，測試時的環境可能與訓練音 檔的錄製環境大不相同，進而影響實際使用時的準確率。除了使用數據增強盡可能的模 仿各種不同的環境之外，我們也加入特徵正規化的方法幫助我們增加系統的強健性，其 中倒頻譜平均值與變異數正規化法 (Cepstral Mean and Variance Normalization, CMVN) 是常見特徵正規化的方法之一，藉由整段語音特徵的平均與標準差對特徵進行標準化， 假設一音檔的音框長度為𝑇，每一音框之特徵維度為𝑁，1 ≤ 𝑡 ≤ 𝑇且1 ≤ 𝑖 ≤ 𝑁，𝑥)(𝑖)表 示為第𝑡個音框中第𝑖維的特徵，而將 𝑥)(𝑖)正規化至 𝑥,)(𝑖)的公式如下：  𝑥,)(𝑖)  =  𝑥)(𝑖) − 𝜇(𝑖) 𝜎(𝑖)  (1)  其中  2 
From an educational perspective, it is important to provide students of different grades with reading material of appropriate difficulty for better learning retention. To deal with this problem, it is common practice to use a set of handcrafted features, for example, hard word rate or word count, to distinguish articles into different readability levels. However, these traditional readability features are often too shallow to represent deeper semantic or syntactic structures of the articles. In view of this, we present a modeling approach that leverages a recurrent neural network to hierarchically encode both the semantic or syntactic structures of a given article for better readability classification. Furthermore, we also seek to make extra use of traditional handcrafted feature as side information to further boost the performance. 關鍵詞：可讀性、語言特徵、表示學習法、卷積式類神經網路、遞迴式類神經網路 Keywords: Readability、Language Feature、Representation Learning、Convolutional Neural Network、Recurrent Neural Network 一、緒論 可讀性(Readability)是指閱讀材料能夠被讀者所理解的程度[1],[2],[3],[4]；當讀者閱讀較 高可讀性的文本時，會產生較好的理解及學後保留效果[2],[3]。西方的可讀性公式發展 的非常早[5],[6]，據 Chall 與 Dale[7]在 1995 年的統計，到 1980 年為止相關的可讀性公 式就已經超過 200 多種。這些傳統的可讀性研究大多使用較淺層的語言特徵來發展線性 的可讀性公式。例如著名的 Flesch Reading Ease 公式以詞彙音節數做為語意的指標、以 語句的長度作為語法的指標，透過計算詞彙的平均音節數與文本的平均語句長度來評估 文本的可讀性難易程度：當文本的詞彙音節數愈多、語句愈長時，則該文本在閱讀理解 時愈為困難。然而，傳統可讀性公式所採用的淺層語言特徵，並不足以反映文本閱讀理 解的難度。Graesser、Singer 和 Trabasso[8]便指出，傳統可讀性公式無法反映閱讀的真 實歷程，並沒有考量文本的深層特性，例如語句的前後順序。Collins-Thompson[9]亦指 出傳統可讀性公式僅著重在使用文本的表淺資訊，而忽略文本其它的重要特徵，例如文 335  本結構資訊或 N-連語言樣式(N-gram Patterns)。這也讓傳統可讀性公式在預測文本可讀 性的結果常遭受到質疑。甚至因為可讀性公式所採用的可讀性特徵過少，導致容易受到 有心人士為了達到特定的可讀性數值，而刻意針對可讀性特徵的特性來修改文本，使得 文本呈現許多簡短而破碎的句子，反而降低了文本的流暢度與連貫性，因此增加閱讀難 度[10]。直至今日，可讀性的研究仍持續不斷。研究人員為了克服傳統可讀性公式的缺 點，嘗試利用較複雜的機器學習演算法來發展出更細緻、非線性的可讀性模型；同時， 亦納入更多元的可讀性指標來共同評量文本的可讀性，除了可以提升可讀性模型的效能， 亦可防止有心人士去操弄文本的可讀性[11],[12],[13]。 而在近年，由於深度學習(或表示學習)在自然語言處理領域的蓬勃發展，讓我們能 夠藉由相關技術從文本中萃取出更深層的語意或結構特徵。例如，在自動文件摘要的研 究上，有所謂的序列對序列(Sequence-to-Sequence, Seq2Seq)模型架構提出，透過在不同 階段使用卷積式類神經網路(Convolutional Neural Network, CNN)與遞迴式類神經網路 (Recurrent Neural Network, RNN)來達成語句或文本(文本)的固定長度語意向量表示[14]， 並藉此產生出一份較為簡短扼要的摘要來代表原始文件。而在[15]中，研究人員採用了 更複雜的序列對序列模型並加入了強化學習(Reinforcement Learning)使得自動摘要的表 現更好。 基於上述的研究與相關技術發展，在本論文中我們設計並實作出具有階層式編碼的 類神經網路來做為可讀性預測模型。首先，透過以卷積式類神經網路(CNN)以擷取每一 句語句內部的局部詞彙使用特徵；接著，經由遞迴式類神經網路(RNN)依照語句向前或 向後讀取卷積式類神經網路所產生之語句的語意向量表示，來產生同時含有文本語句結 構資訊之文本的語意向量表示，最後用於於文本可讀性難易程度預測。同時，我們並嘗 試在此模型中額外加入傳統的人為定義特徵作為輔助資訊以期能更進一步提升可讀性 預測模型的效能表現。本論文接下來的安排如下：第二節描述我們提出的文本階層式編 碼模型架構；第三節將呈現實驗材料及相關的實驗設定及結果；最後第四節是總結及未 來研究的方向。 二、階層式編碼架構 基於階層式編碼模型架構之文本可讀性預測模型是如圖一所意示，它主要可分為兩個部 分：首先為結合卷積式類神經網路(CNN)和遞迴式類神經網路(RNN)所組成的文本編碼 336  (Encoding)結構，此部分主要的目標在於得到對於每一篇文本的高階特徵；此結構的優 點在於融合卷積式類神經網路與遞迴式類神經網路的長處: 卷積神經網路能夠捕捉語 句內局部的 N-連語言樣式(N-gram Patterns)，而遞迴式類神經網路則可以捕捉長距離的 語句與語句之間的語意和結構關係。透過上述依序結合使用的方式，可以彌補單純將文 本視為一個詞彙序列(忽略語句間結構資訊)並僅單獨使用卷積式類神經網路或遞迴式 類神經網路來產生文本固定長度向量表示的不足處。更詳細地說，在實作時輸入文本中 的每一句語所含的詞彙會先經過詞嵌入(Word Embedding)轉換方法，例如 Skip-Gram 和 CBOW，轉換成固定長度的詞彙語意向量[16]。再者，每一句語句中詞彙的語意向量會 經過含三層卷積式類神經網路，每一層含有不同數量和大小(由大到小)的核函數(Kernel Function)以萃取不同階段的語句內部的語意向量表示。  語句會經過三層核函數由大到小的卷積式類神經網路以取得對每個句子的向量表達 (Sentence Representation)，再將其送入雙向長短期記憶網路(Bi-directional LSTM)，雙向 長短期記憶網路能夠達成捕捉每一句對其他句之間的關係的目標，最後得出兩個方向相 反的內文向量，將其串接之後，送入最後的前饋網路(Feed Forward Network)做出最後的 預測。  在文本編碼及前饋網路之間，會考慮是否加入文本的一般特徵(表一)，此些一般特 徵由考慮文本的不同面向統計而來。一般特徵會在得到對整個文本的特徵表達之後與之 串接，得到一個包含同時具有文本語句結構資訊及一般統計特徵之文本的語意向量，以 期作出最後的文本可讀性難度預測。  詞相關特徵 句相關特徵  表一、文本之一般特徵共 15 個 特徵名稱 詞數、動詞數、領域詞頻對數平均、負向連接詞數、中筆劃字元 數、副詞數、實詞數、低筆劃字元數、二字詞數、複雜語意類別 數、正向連接詞數、難詞數 單句數比率、複雜結構句數、複雜語意類別句子數  337  Figure 1. The Dynamite  圖一、階層式編碼之文本可讀性預測模型架構圖 三、實驗設定與結果  (一)、實驗材料 本研究材料選自 98 年度臺灣 H、K、N 三大出版社所出版的 1-12 年級審定版的國語科、 社會科和自然科等三個領域的教科書全部共計 4,648 篇[17]，各版本教科書均經由專家 根據課程綱要編制而成，其實驗材料的年級分佈如表一所示，模型的目標則是預測輸入 屬於 12 個年級中何者。  表一、實驗材料在各年級的數量分佈  年級  
There are two purposes in the paper, one is training an efficient ASR system, the other is improving the OOV problem caused by the personal name, and we want to recognize it for the purpose of making transcription of different kind of speech data. Name recognition data is also an important training data for the NLP. The paper base on the environment of Kaldi speech recognition toolkit. In the acoustic model part, we use many different kind of neural network such as TDNN to transform the speech information into phone sequence. In the language part, we add Chinese special 343  language information such as variant word combination and name entity decomposition, using n-gram language model and lattice rescoring to transform the phone sequence into word sequence. We also tune the parameters and weights during the decoding process to get the best operation point to obtain a ASR system which is not only good at recognition rate but also efficient at recognition time. Moreover, we focus on the problem of difficulty in personal name recognition. We build a class-based like model to replace the original word-based model of personal name to reach the goal of personal name recognition. 關鍵詞：聲學模型、語言模型、中文大辭彙連續語音辨識、時延神經網路(Time Delay Neural Network, TDNN)、專有名詞辨識(Named Entity Recognition, NER)。 Keywords: acoustic model, language model, Mandarin large vocabulary continuous speech recognition, TDNNs, named entity recognition. 一、 緒論 (一) 研究動機 隨著訓練語料的增加，電腦運算速度的大幅提升，再加上越來越多製作語音辨識器 的工具庫的發明，如 HTK Speech Recognition Toolkit1, Kaldi ASR2, et al. 訓練一可用甚至是 商用級別的語音辨識已經是唾手可得。 但是，辨識器普遍存在著對於專有名詞辨識率不佳的問題，由台北科技大學廖元甫 老師提供之比賽3結果，比較國內多所學校與企業所訓練之辨識器，整體辨識率之正確 率普遍可高達 90%做右(字錯誤率 10%左右)，但是仔細評估辨認錯誤之詞彙後發現，各 辨識器對於專有名詞之辨認率相對較差，尤其在專有名詞中最為重要且為數眾多的人名 辨識之正確率僅不到 50%(如圖 一)，也就是說，只要辨識器一遇到人名，辨識率通常不 會太高。然而，人名對語言來說又是一個非常重要的資訊，例如在日常生活中，常用的 句型裡不外乎由人事時地物所組成，而這裡的「人」，指的就是人名，再者，若辨識器 將人名全部當成 OOV 處理，不僅人名這個詞彙辨識不出來以外，也會影響包含人名的 句子的辨識能力，因此，本實驗將致力於提升語音辨識器對人名之辨識率，藉由對語言 模型之訓練語料加入人名資訊，以期望提高辨識器對於人名之辨識率。 
Identifying argument components has become an important area of research in argument mining. When argument components are identified, they can not only be used for stance classification but also can provide reasons for determining an article is supporting or opposing about a specific target. Previous research mainly used text classification and summarization techniques to solve this task. However, by transforming the task to a classification problem, not only rely heavily on choosing and using bag-of-words features, but also lose the article entity information due to extract the sentences out of the article and treat as an individual training instance. In the other hand, although summarization techniques handle on entire article and try to figure out which sentence can best represent the core concept of the article, in identifying argument components still heavily relies on bag-of-words feature representation and lack of argument-oriented features to concern about argument components characteristics. In our study, we dive down to the core of the summarization method, not only makes it based on argument strength to summarize articles and identify argument components, but also proposed a directed graph construction approach. Experiments show that our proposed method outperforms 8% better than those without argument-oriented methods. 關鍵詞：辯論語意挖掘、辨識論點、自動化摘要、有向圖 Keywords: Argument Mining, Argument Components, Summarization, Directed Graph. 1. Introduction In “Argument Components Extraction (ACE),” researchers try to get which sentence can be treated as arguing points, as known as “Argument Components (AC).” According to [1], which summarized tons of state-of-art knowledge about AM, summarized that how can a sentence become an argument component. The argument components in argumentative articles are usually formed by five types of sentences: “Claim” are the sentences that represent the statement being argued, “Data” are the facts or evidence used to prove the claim, “Warrant” are the sentences that make a connection between data and claim, “Backing” and “Rebuttal” are the sentences that support and against the warrant, respectively. ACE is what our study is targeting on, to find out which are the key sentences that make 379  people explain why they support or against something. Furthermore, the results can feedback to SC task, since we know the key sentences that lead an article to support or against. We are using the dataset released by [2], which collected posts under the domain “Abortion,” “Gay Rights,” “Obama” and “Marijuana” from an online debate forum. They manually labeled argument components in each post under each domain. To accomplish the goal of ACE, previous methods commonly use bag-of-words or feature-based approach to represent the sentence in a feature vector form. These methods will cause the problems that lead to sparse feature, and it needs to treat sentences individually rather than processing with other sentences in the post. We based on existed summarization method, TextRank to be one of our baselines. In [3], they aim to extract argument components by applying TextRank, which first using TF-IDF to represent each sentence then create an undirected graph, then applies PageRank on the undirected graph to acquire ranked sentences; In the end, the top-ranked sentence will be treated as argument components. However, we can say that the summarization algorithm was proved to perform well in extracting keywords or key sentences from an article, but cannot confidently say they are argument components. In [4], which their work motivated us to integrate argument-oriented information in the graph, shows that changing the edge construction method can improve TextRank performance. We proposed an argument-oriented TextRank, ArguRank to address previously issued problems: With integrating subjectivity score to change the calculation within TextRank, we can confidently say that the result will be argument-ranked. Moreover, we proposed a directed graph construction approach to retrieve the nodes relation and direction, which aim to gain more performance by concern about how the score will be propagated. To summarize, we make the following contributions:  A model to retrieve subjectivity score of words through manual compiled argument-oriented corpus.  An argument-oriented TextRank to identify the argument component.  A directed graph construction approach to pursuing better ranking performance. 380  2. Related Works 2.1 Lexicon Expansion The lexicon expansion approach aims to enlarge an existing lexicon using possibility, so it can not only be used by itself but can also lead a classifier or a model to learn its core concepts. Previously, a lexicon-based method uses the attributes provided in the lexicon to do a specific task. The attribute in the lexicon usually becomes a feature that whether the target article contains the word or not, if contains, then the feature will switch to a state, otherwise will have another state. But more chances words in the target article will not appear in the chosen lexicon, make the feature is not as efficient as it should be. Researchers like [5] proposed a concept that using an existing lexicon as seed, and choose a model to learn the concept of the lexicon and then the model can try to predict attributes of words that not contain in the lexicon to maximize the feature that we want to retrieve from the lexicon. The lexicon expansion is accomplished in the following step, which proposed in [5]: (1) Choose a lexicon as seed, (2) Transfer words from text to its representation in vector space, finally (3) Construct and train a classifier or model to predict unknown words to retrieve the information the seed lexicon can give. The main workflow is shown in our research; we will use such this approach to enlarge an existing subjectivity lexicon to acquire words subjectivity strength probability for further procedure. 2.2 Graph-based Summarization Another field and category to summarize documents are the graph-based methods. One of this kind is LexRank, proposed by [6]. It adopts TF-IDF to represent each words’ importance in the sentences, then uses a modified cosine similarity equation to construct the edges between sentences. The other approaches are TextRank and TextRank-based variation. [3] modified TextRank (shorten as PsTK) to rank sentences to determine which sentences are highly possible to be an argument component. The work constructs the graph for PageRank to iterate with sentences as nodes and similarity between each sentence as edges. In the original TextRank [7], it uses the following Equation 1 to calculate the similarity between sentences. 381  𝑆𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦(𝑆𝑖,  𝑆𝑗 )  =  |{𝑤𝑘|𝑤𝑘 ∈ log⁡(|𝑆𝑖|)  𝑆𝑖&𝑤𝑘 ∈ 𝑆𝑗}| + log⁡(|𝑆𝑗|)  (1)  After the edges are calculated, TextRank will use PageRank, proposed by [8] to iterate the graph and get the scores of each node, here we treat nodes as sentences in an article. In PsTK, they use a different way to construct the edges. However, the method cannot convince that summarization is a suitable method to solve the task, since none of the operation related to argument, stance or reasoning. In our work, we proposed an argument-oriented TextRank, ArguRank, which considered argument specific characteristics to identify argument component.  ArguRank  Argumentative Scoring Model  Words  Word Vector Model  Argumentative Scoring Model  Words’ Subjectivity Score  Post  Sentence Splitter  Sentences  Sentences’ Representation  Graph Construction  PageRank  Argument Component  Short Text  Extra Document  Extra Document  Extra Document  …  Expansion  #1  #2  #3  Figure 1. System framework and flowchart of our proposed method. 3. Method We based on PsTK, the state-of-the-arts method on our dataset to develop our method, ArguRank. In the previous section, we address the issue of TextRank, motivated us to proposed argument-oriented TextRank, ArguRank, which aim to solve these issues and performs better in identifying argument components. Our proposed system will (1) read online debate posts, (2) preprocess the texts into sentences, (3) create sentence representation for calculating edge, (4) build a directed graph then (5) apply PageRank to scoring sentences. During this pipe which shows in Figure 1, we will apply our method to certain steps to make become argument-oriented TextRank, ArguRank.  382  3.1 Argumentative Scoring Model To make TextRank argument-oriented, we develop a model to help enhance extract hidden argumentative information. The corpus we use to build the model is “Multi-Perspective Question Answering (MPQA) Subjectivity Lexicon,” was compiled by [9]. It contains 8222 words; each word was labeled as “strong subjectivity” or “weak subjectivity.” To get the score of words that are not contained in the lexicon, we use the word vector model and binary classifier to build an argumentative scoring model to predict the argumentative score of the word. To construct the argumentative scoring model, we (1) use a word vector model to get its vector representation, then (2) feed to a binary classifier to make it learn how to separate the vector into strong or weak subjectivity.  3.2 Argument-oriented Summarization  After training the classifier, we use it to get subjectivity score of each word in each sentence. First, we normalized the subjectivity score of words in each sentence by a softmax function. The sentence representation will then be calculated via Equation 2.  𝐾  →  →  𝑆 = ∑ 𝑉𝑊𝑖 𝑎𝑖  (2)  𝑖  Where V⃗ represents the word vector of Wi and S⃗ denotes the sentence representation before constructing the graph for PageRank.  3.3 Graph Construction  
Discourse parser helps us understand the relationship and connection between sentences and sentences from different angles, but the tree structure data still need to rely on manual marking, which makes this technology unable to be directly used in daily life. So far, there have been many research and studies on how to automatically construct the complete tree structure on the computer. Since deep learning has progressed rapidly in recent years, the construction method for discourse parser has also changed from the traditional SVM, CRF 388  method to the current recursive neural network. In the Chinese corpus tree library CDTB, the parsing analysis problem can be divided into four main problems, including elementary discourse unit (EDU) segmentation, tree structure construction, center labeling, and sense labeling. In this paper, we use many state-of-the-art deep learning techniques, such as attentive recursive neural networks, self-attentive, and BERT to improve the performance. In the end, we succeeded in increasing the accuracy by more than 10% of F1 in each task, reaching the best performance we know so far. 關鍵詞：深度學習, 篇章剖析, 注意力機制, 遞迴類神經網路 Keywords: Deep Learning, Discourse Parsing, Attention, RvNN 一、緒論 篇章剖析主旨在分析文本之間的關係和結構信息，最終能建構成完整的剖析樹，至目前 為止，篇章剖析語料庫有許多不同的體系，例如對目前研究影響最深的 Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)體系[1]，擁有更多標記資料且結構更為自由的 Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) 體系[2]，或是以中文篇章結構為主的 Chinese Discourse Treebank (CDT) 體系[3]，每一種體系在標記的定義與見解皆不同，所建立起來的關係結構也截然不同， 因此相同的篇章在不同體系之間，資料可以視為一種互補的關係。由於篇章剖析中豐富 的關係標記，使得篇章剖析資料運用在許多不同的研究上，皆獲得更好的準確率，但篇 章剖析語料庫仰賴人工標記，使得篇章剖析的許多研究無法直接使用在未經結構化的資 料上，因此我們的研究以 CDT 體系為主，目的是要建立一個中文的剖析程式，將串列 結構的篇章轉換成剖析樹結構的篇章資料，並標註出結構關係。 目前已經有許多針對篇章剖析進行的研究，例如 SVM Base Parser [4]、DCRF Base Parser [5]、Recursive Deep Learning [6]、Transition-Based Dependency Parser [7]，在這些研究中， 將篇章剖析主要分成兩種問題，分別是子句分割與剖析樹結構建立，並將這兩項問題視 為分類問題，但這些研究有以下問題無法直接應用在我們的研究上，其一是這些研究皆 是針對英文進行剖析程式的建立，研究中設計了許多英語的文字特徵難以複製到中文剖 析研究上，其二是大部分的研究不做子句分割的問題，而是以正確的子句當作輸入來進 行訓練，而剖析模型中子句分割的好壞很重要，這會直接影響後續所有問題的效能表現， 因此忽略子句分割的剖析程式，不但無法實際運用在現實生活中，也不符合我們的要求。 389  2018 年 Lin 提出了以中文為主的 RvNN Base Parser [8]，此研究使用中文語料庫 CDTB 來進行建構，不需要擷取額外的文字特徵，且包含完整端對端剖析結構，此研究是據我 們所知，第一個針對中文的端對端篇章剖析開源程式，且達到目前我們所知中文剖析程 式中最高的準確率，但研究中還有許多不足的地方，因此受到他們的啟發，我們希望以 此研究架構為主軸，在效能與程式結構上進行優化，使之準確率更貼近人類的標準。 Lin 於這份研究中，將篇章剖析分為四個步驟，分別是子句分割、樹結構構建、主次關 係標示與篇關係辨識，在研究中使用標點符號對子句進行分割，接著輸入 Recursive neural network (RvNN) 對節點子樹資訊進行擷取，並對不同問題進行預測，最後使用 CYK 演算法做剖析樹的建構。我們針對 Lin 的架構做出以下四種優化：(1) 在訓練階段 Lin 並未使用任何預先訓練的 word embedding，但好的 word embedding 對模型的訓練 極其重要，因此我們加入了 FastText embedding 來幫助訓練。(2) 一個子句中，每個字 詞之間的重要程度皆不同，如果能找出字詞之間的權重資訊將能有效幫助模型的訓練， 在程式中我們加入了 self-attentive[9]，讓模型能在不同順序點上學習文字或句子的重要 程度。(3) 在 2016 年 Zhou 等人於 COLING 發表一篇論文[10]，將 Attentive 機制加入 RvNN 裡，幫助 RvNN 學習節點下每個子樹的重要程度，並且實驗在四個不同問題中， 相較於加入 Tree Attention 前，獲得更好的效能。因此我們相信，一個樹的向量推導並 不需要依賴於所有的子樹，樹狀結構中一定會有某個部份的子樹相對於其它子樹影響更 大，我們並不需要依賴全部子樹來得到節點的訊息，因此我們將 attentive 機制也加入 RvNN 中，讓 RvNN 在訓練過程中找出相對重要的子樹，幫助模型進行訓練。(4) Lin 在 模型中以標點符號作為子句分割的依據，但此方法的效果不理想，子句分割的 F1 比 Lin 實驗中的 baseline 還要低，因此我們將此問題看作是 sequence labeling problem，以目 前做此類問題效能最好的 BERT [14] 進行子句分割實驗，並達到目前子句分割最好的 效能。 二、模型設計 在這章節，我們會先針對模型的主要架構作解釋，隨後會再針對模型中個別使用到的深 度學習技術做介紹。本論文架構主體以 RvNN 來進行訓練，目的是建構出一個端對端的 中文剖析程式，我們程式的架構和資料準備方式參照了 Lin 所提出的方法，並在此架構 上進行更進，針對我們更進的部分，我們會在次章節中進行詳細介紹。 390  Lin 對輸入的句子使用標點符號做子句分割，而後輸入 LSTM 擷取子句訊息，最後輸入 RvNN 內進行節點資訊提取，並建立剖析樹。我們與之不同，如圖一，將輸入的句子使 用預先訓練好的 BERT 模型做子句分割，子句長度為 n，使用 FastText 做為文字的 embedding，每個字會映射到一個大小為 300 的陣列，每個子句會以字為單位轉換成大 小為300 × 𝑛的矩陣，則每個子句則可以表示為 𝑒𝑖 = (𝑒1𝑖 , … , 𝑒𝑛𝑖 )。之後將子句輸入 LSTM 學習，同時使用 self-attentive layer 算出每段子句文字資訊的重要程度，對文字依據不 同的權重做加權，得到計算過後的子句資訊𝑆𝑖，此資訊作為我們 Attentive RvNN 的輸 入，並且以下到上的方式，使用 CYK 演算法針對子句做結合，最後組建出一顆完整的 剖析樹。  Attentive Recursive Neural Network (Tree Build)  𝑆1 self-atten × LSTM 𝑒1 𝑒2 𝑒3 Embed  𝑆2 self-atten × LSTM 𝑒1 𝑒2 𝑒3 Embed  𝑆3 self-atten × LSTM 𝑒1 𝑒2 𝑒3 Embed  EDU  EDU  EDU  BERT EDU SEG  WW W WW W WW W  圖一、篇章剖析訓練結構 我們採用與 Lin 相同的方式計算 RvNN，針對剖析樹的建構、主次關係與篇關係辨識等 問題，會將 RvNN 對目標節點所輸出的隱藏層 ℎ⃗ 與狀態層 𝑐，使用 SoftMax 分類器來 算出不同問題選項的機率，並選取機率最高的選項做為答案，機率公式如下  391  𝑝  =  𝑠𝑜𝑓𝑡𝑚𝑎𝑥  (𝑊𝑠  [ℎ⃗ ] 𝑐  +  𝑏⃗⃗⃗𝑠 )  (1)  使用了三個 SoftMax 分類器來針對三種不同的問題做輸出，並同樣使用 CYK 演算法對  剖析樹進行建構。  （一）子句分割  建構 CDTB 中，子句分割極為重要，子句分割點一定是位於標點符號上，但並非只要出 現標點符號，句子就必須做分割。如下圖表一的句子，第一個逗號為子句分割點，但第 二個逗號並不需要做子句分割。因此我們將子句分割獨立出來，視為一個序列標記問題， 並且分別使用 BERT Fine-Tuning 此種在序列標記上非常熱門的方法來做訓練。  訓練中我們以 BERT 語言模型作為基礎，訓練資料字為單位做分割，使用 I 代表的 inside 與 E 代表的 End 兩種標籤來做標記，標記方式如表一，子句分割段落以 E 做標記，其 餘皆以 I 來做標記。 表一、序列資料標記範例 句 他 非 常 認 真 ， 所 以 ， 把 重 要 任 務 交 給 他 。 子 標 I I I I I EI I I I I I I I I I I E 籤  在 BERT Fine-Tuning 模型當中，我們使用 Google 所提供 12-layer, 768-hidden, 12-heads,  110M parameters 預先訓練好的中文模型作為我們的初始模型，並在此之上學習序列標  記問題，我們會將輸入的文字轉換成 BERT 所定義的 Token，再將此 Token 輸入模型中  進行訓練，模型架構如圖二  I E  I  E  圖二、BERT 模型架構 392  （二）Self-Attentive 在 2017 年 Lin, Feng 等人於 ICLR 提出了 Self-Attentive 的機制，Self-Attentive 機制不 需依靠外界的額外資訊，即可在句子內部進行 Attentive 的學習，尋找序列內部資訊的 聯繫。因此，在我們的模型中，也加入了此機制，使用二维矩陣來表示句子，矩陣的每 一行則表示句子的不同關係。公式如下：  𝑠 = (𝑤1, 𝑤2 . . . 𝑤𝑛)  (2)  ℎ𝑡 = 𝐿𝑆𝑇𝑀(𝑤𝑡, ℎ𝑡−1)  (3) 
This study aims to investigate the occurrences of opposites in Mandarin four-word idioms. We used the Revised Ministry of Education Online Dictionary to search for a total of 12 combinations of opposites in four-word idioms based on 32 opposites. These idioms were analyzed in terms of their dictionary definitions, combinations, and internal structure. Based on the definitions and the POS information on the components in the online dictionary, as well as the combinations of opposites, we collected 910 types of idioms. Our analysis used quantitative method to analyze not only idioms but idioms containing opposites, and our study is one of the few studies that have utilized this approach. 1. Introduction There have been multiple studies on Mandarin idioms, but those that have inspected contrasting words in idioms have seldom been carried out in the past. Wang, Wu, Li, Huang, and Hui (2010: 501) [1], one of the few studies that conducted a corpus-based analysis of the co-occurrence of Chinese opposites, proved that little research on the issue of Chinese antonymy has been performed in the past2: “We searched ‘antonymy’ and ‘corpus|corpora’ as keywords in the CNKI, an e-resource containing all Chinese journals, but no matches were retrieved. Therefore there is a need for further analysis of Chinese antonymy in this way.” Our goal was to examine opposites in Mandarin four-character constructions and the same 
NSURL-2019 Task 7 focuses on Named Entity Recognition (NER) in Farsi. This task was chosen to compare different approaches to find phrases that specify Named Entities in Farsi texts, and to establish a standard testbed for future researches on this task in Farsi. This paper describes the process of making training and test data, the list of participating teams (6 teams), and evaluation results of their systems. The best system obtained 85.4% of F1 score based on phrase-level evaluation on seven classes of NEs including person, organization, location, date, time, money, and percent. 
Gender recognition in speech processing is one of the most challenging tasks. While many studies rely on extracting features and designing enhancement classiﬁers, classiﬁcation accuracy is still not satisfactory. The remarkable improvement in performance achieved through the use of neural networks for automatic speech recognition has encouraged the use of deep neural networks in other voice techniques such as speech, emotion, language and gender recognition. An earlier study showed a signiﬁcant improvement in the gender recognition of pictures and videos. In this paper, speech is used to create a gender recognition scheme based on neural networks. Attention-based BiLSTM architecture is proposed to discover the best approach for gender identiﬁcation in Yoru`ba´. Acoustic features, including time, frequency, and cepstral features are extracted to train the model. The model obtained the state-of-the-art performance in speech-based gender recognition with 99% accuracy and F1 score.  systems from speech signal are affected by the performance of the recording tools, the language of the speaker, and noisy recording settings. As a result, to obtain adequate classiﬁcation results, gender recognition from speech signals requires valid classiﬁers and feature extractors. In the areas of machine learning and computer vision, deep neural networks (DNNs) have shown notable achievements (Moghaddam and Ming-Hsuan Yang, 2000; Hwang et al., 2009). Deep neural networks, after thorough training, can effectively extract and classify different feature sets. DNNs are most effective when the training set contains a complicated feature space that needs high-level representation. In this paper, deep recurrent neural networks (DRNNs) are used as classiﬁers and genderrecognition extractors. Bidirectional long-short term memory (BiLSTM) is combined with an attention mechanism to learn the features. Because gender recognition is a binary classiﬁcation, a sigmoid activation function has been used to classify the gender.  
Named Entity refers to person, organization and location names, and sometimes date, time, money and percent expressions as well. Named entity Recognition (NER) systems are developed to extract these essential information units from a text. Persian is a lessdeveloped language in many natural language processing tasks such as NER. In this paper we present our system, MorphoBERT, submitted to the First Workshop on NLP Solutions for Under Resourced Languages (NSURL 2019)(Taghizadeh et al., 2019). We train the BERT model (Devlin et al., 2019a) on a large volume of Persian texts to get a highly accurate representation of tokens and then we apply a BiLSTM (bidirectional LSTM) on vector representations to label tokens. Persian is a rich language in terms of morphology and word parts may convey grammatical and semantic information. To inform the model of this information we analyze texts morphologically to split the lemma and afﬁx(es) of each word and then we train the model on the analyzed texts. The test data, provided by the organizers, contains in-domain and out-of-domain texts. Our system achieves the ﬁrst rank among all participated systems with a total high precision, recall and F1 of 87.0, 83.8, 85.4, respectively. 
Measurement of semantic similarity plays an important role in many areas of natural language processing. Several approaches have been proposed to determine the similarity of sentences in different languages but many of them are not extendable in all languages. According to the complicated Arabic language structure and lack of necessary resources and tools, the Arabic semantic similarity measurement is challenging. In this paper, we proposed a supervised method for Arabic semantic question similarity measurement. Forty-one features (lexical, syntactic and semantic) are extracted from two question phrases, then the best distinctive features are selected by using SelectKBest algorithm. Finally, for sentences classification and determining the similarity score, SVM used. The system participated in task8 of NSURL 2019 .The results of using this method on the data set of NSURL 2019 have a Fmeasure of 82.58 percent, which have improved the basic method. 
Named entity recognition is a natural language processing task to recognize and extract spans of text associated with named entities and classify them in semantic Categories. Google BERT is a deep bidirectional language model, pre-trained on large corpora that can be ﬁne-tuned to solve many NLP tasks such as question answering, named entity recognition, part of speech tagging and etc. In this paper, we use the pre-trained deep bidirectional network, BERT, to make a model for named entity recognition in Persian. We also compare the results of our model with the previous state of the art results achieved on Persian NER. Our evaluation metric is CONLL 2003 score in two levels of word and phrase. This model achieved second place in NSURL-2019 task 7 competition which associated with NER for the Persian language. our results in this competition are 83.5 and 88.4 f1 CONLL score respectively in phrase and word level evaluation. 
Automatic Dialogue Acts Recognition is considered a crucial step for semantic extraction in Natural Language Understanding and Dialogue Systems. In this paper, we introduce our work aiming to recognize the dialogue acts of the users in a Textual Dialogue system using Levantine Arabic dialect. Our Dialogue acts have 8 types: Greeting, Goodbye, Thanks, Conﬁrm, Negate, Ask_repeat, Ask_for_alt, and Apology. Various Machine Learning algorithms -with different features have been used to detect the correct speech act categories: Logistic Regression, SVM, Multinomial NB, Extra Trees Classiﬁer, Random Forest Classiﬁer. We also used the Voting Ensemble method to make the best prediction from each classiﬁer. We compared the results of the proposed models on a hand-crafted corpus in the restaurants orders and airline ticketing domain. The SVM algorithm with 2-gram has given the best results. 
In this paper, we describe our team’s effort on the semantic text question similarity task of NSURL 2019. Our top performing system utilizes several innovative data augmentation techniques to enlarge the training data. Then, it takes ELMo pre-trained contextual embeddings of the data and feeds them into an ONLSTM network with self-attention. This results in sequence representation vectors that are used to predict the relation between the question pairs. The model is ranked in the 1st place with 96.499 F1score (same as the second place F1-score) and the 2nd place with 94.848 F1-score (differs by 1.076 F1-score from the ﬁrst place) on the public and private leaderboards, respectively. 
Nowadays, a broad range of speech recognition technologies (such as Apple Siri and Amazon Alexa) are developed as the user interface has become ever convenient and prevalent. Machine learning algorithms are yielding better training results to support these developments in Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR). However, most of these developments have been in languages with worldwide, political, economic and/or scientific influence such as English, Japanese, German, French, and Spanish, just to name a few. On the other hand, there has been little or no development of ASR systems (or language technologies) in most minority and under-resourced languages of the world, especially those spoken in Sub-Sahara Africa. One of such languages is the Ngiemboon language which is the focus of this paper. The Ngiemboon language is a Grassfield Bantu language spoken in the West Region of Cameroon (Africa) by about 400,000 people. This paper highlights the motivations, challenges and perspectives inherent in a work in progress (speech data collection is underway) to build a Deep Learning based Automatic Speech Recognition System for this minority underresourced Cameroonian local language. This paper introduces the issues critical to conducting research in Speech Processing in this language 1. Introduction Automatic Speech Recognition is “the process and the related technology for converting the speech signal into its corresponding sequence of words or other linguistic entities by means of algorithms implemented in a device, a computer, or computer clusters” (Li and O'Shaughnessy, 2003). As an active field of research, Automatic Speech Recognition has told significant stories for a few decades. “Early attempts to design  systems for automatic speech recognition were mostly guided by the theory of acoustic-phonetics, which describes the phonetic elements of speech (the basic sounds of the language) and tries to explain how they are acoustically realized in a spoken utterance” (Juang and Rabiner, 2005). These efforts date back to the early 50s. Since then, ASR has yielded incredible development in a broad range of commercial technologies where Speech Recognition as the user interface has become ever useful and pervasive. However, most of these developments have been in languages with strong scientific, political, and/or economic influences such as English, German, French, and to some extent Japanese and Spanish, just to name a few. Historically, most of these languages have always enjoyed social prestige and their extensive vocabulary has given them prominence in the world of commerce. It is worth noting that ASR research and innovation in these languages are significant and continuous. On the contrary, there has been little or no research and development efforts in ASR and other Human Language Technologies in most minority languages of the world, particularly those spoken in Sub-Sahara Africa. Yet, these languages serve as the main vector for the socioeconomic development of communities where they are spoken. In this paper, we highlight the motivations, challenges, and perspectives that must be considered in building Human Language Technologies, more precisely an Automatic Speech Recognition System for the Ngiemboon language. 1.1 Paper objective and contribution A surge of interest in the development of technologies in African languages is emerging. The African Languages in the Field: speech Fundamentals and Automation (ALFFA)1 project (spearheaded in France by the “Laboratoire Informatique de Grenoble” 
This paper contributes the first evaluation of the quality of statistical machine translation (SMT) between Myanmar (Burmese) and Dawei (Tavoyan). We also developed a Myanmar-Dawei parallel corpus (around 9K sentences) based on the Myanmar language of ASEAN MT corpus. The 10 folds cross-validation experiments were carried out using three different statistical machine translation approaches: phrase-based, hierarchical phrase-based, and the operation sequence model (OSM). In addition, two types of segmentation were studied: word and syllable segmentation. The results show that all three statistical machine translation approaches give comparable BLEU and RIBES scores for both Myanmar to Dawei and Dawei to Myanmar machine translations. OSM approach achieved the highest BLEU and RIBES scores among three SMT approaches for both word and syllable segmentation. 
Measuring string similarity is useful for a broad range of applications. It plays an important role in machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, error encoding, and bioinformatics. Measuring string similarity is a fundamental operation of data science, important for data cleaning and integration. Realworld applications such as spell checking, duplicate finding, searching similar words, and retrieving tasks use string similarity. In this study, string similarity metrics have been calculated for Burmese (Myanmar language). The encoding table for Burmese has been built based on the pronunciation similarity of characters and vowel combination positions with a consonant. According to the table, strings and words are encoded. Similarity distance is measured between the dataset and query words. Previous string similarity approaches are not suitable for fuzzy string matching of tonal-based Burmese. Therefore, three mapping approaches are proposed in this study. 
This research is an attempt to investigate the perceptual system processing of English connected speech. More speciﬁcally, it attempts to offer an experimental study to show the impact of the phonological context and speciﬁc English learning experience on non-native listeners perception of a set of assimilated-English speech forms inserted in pair of words and sentential contexts. Given that assimilation of place as a regular phonological process shaping English casual speech, seems to pose a notorious problem for the perceptual system in general and for non-native listeners to English continuous speech in particular. This triggers the current research investigation of a networks performance on English assimilated forms so as to have rather measurable and testable results. 
This paper proposes a supervised NER model based on gazetteer for NSURL-2019 Task 7: Named Entity Recognition (NER) in Farsi. Supervised methods generate acceptable results in many Natural Language Processing tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER). Since these methods are domain-based, so their quality is related to the volume and the domain of training data. External knowledge can help the supervised methods to compensate this deficiency. In this paper, we use an unlabeled corpus as external knowledge to extract a named entity gazetteer for improving the performance of NER systems. We apply a supervised NER model on the unlabeled corpus to extract named entities with high probability. Finally we train a new NER model by using the gazetteer as a new feature to be employed with other features. The results show that the performance of NER model exploiting the gazetteer outperforms the ordinary models. 
This paper describes our method for the task of Semantic Question Similarity in Arabic in the workshop on NLP Solutions for Under Resourced Languages (NSURL). The aim is to build a model that is able to detect similar semantic questions in Arabic language for the provided dataset. Different methods of determining questions similarity are explored in this work. The proposed models achieved high F1-scores, which range from (88% to 96%). Our ofﬁcial best result is produced from the ensemble model of using pre-trained multilingual BERT model with different random seeds with 95.924% F1-Score, which ranks the ﬁrst among nine participants teams. 
Igbo is a resource-scarce Nigerian African language of Bantu language phylum, lacking elctronic linguistic resources in sufficient quantity and quality for the development of human language technologies. Developing Natural Language Processing (NLP) pipeline tools for such a language could be challenging, due to the need to balance the linguistics semantics robustness of the tool with computational parsimony. A Part-ofSpeech (POS) tagger is a challenging NLP tool to develop for the language because of its morphological richness poses computational linguistics challenge that could affect the effectiveness of the entire NLP system. In this paper, the experience in developing a POS tagger for the language using the Hidden Markov Model (HMM is presented. It is an on-going project, developed using a small corpus. The results give an approximate accuracy score of 73%, which needs to be improved upon. 
Natural Language Ontology (NLO) provides a formal specification of linguistic semantics knowledge implicit in a natural language. Such a NLO could facilitate a shared understanding of the linguistic semantics system of the language that enhances accuracy of language semantics modelling in Natural Language Processing (NLP). This paper presents the construction of a general purpose ontology for Yorùbá language, one of the under-resourced African languages.Taking as input popular Yorùbá terms obtained from online books, blogs, social websites, and Yorùbá dictionary, the Ontology was constructed, and a prototype implementation made, using the Protégé ontology development tool. Ontology validation and evaluation were done using an automated reasoner.It is emnivisaged that such Yorùbá language ontology will contribute to the development of digital resources for the language, towards its long-term preservation. 
Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) is a meaning representation framework in which the meaning of a full sentence is represented as a single-rooted, acyclic, directed graph. In this article, we describe an on-going project to build a Chinese AMR (CAMR) corpus, which currently includes 10,149 sentences from the newsgroup and weblog portion of the Chinese TreeBank (CTB). We describe the annotation specifications for the CAMR corpus, which follow the annotation principles of English AMR but make adaptations where needed to accommodate the linguistic facts of Chinese. The CAMR specifications also include a systematic treatment of sentence-internal discourse relations. One significant change we have made to the AMR annotation methodology is the inclusion of the alignment between word tokens in the sentence and the concepts/relations in the CAMR annotation to make it easier for automatic parsers to model the correspondence between a sentence and its meaning representation. We develop an annotation tool for CAMR, and the inter-agreement as measured by the Smatch score between the two annotators is 0.83, indicating reliable annotation. We also present some quantitative analysis of the CAMR corpus. 46.71{\%} of the AMRs of the sentences are non-tree graphs. Moreover, the AMR of 88.95{\%} of the sentences has concepts inferred from the context of the sentence but do not correspond to a specific word.
In this paper, we discuss constituent ordering generalizations in Japanese. Japanese has SOV as its basic order, but a significant range of argument order variations brought about by {`}scrambling{'} is permitted. Although scrambling does not induce much in the way of semantic effects, it is conceivable that marked orders are derived from the unmarked order under some pragmatic or other motivations. The difference in the effect of basic and derived order is not reflected in native speaker{'}s grammaticality judgments, but we suggest that the intuition about the ordering of arguments may be attested in corpus data. By using the Keyaki treebank (a proper subset of which is NINJAL Parsed Corpus of Modern Japanese (NPCMJ)), it is shown that the naturallyoccurring corpus data confirm that marked orderings of arguments are less frequent than their unmarked ordering counterparts. We suggest some possible motivations lying behind the argument order variations.
This paper presents a case study of the use of the NINJAL Parsed Corpus of Modern Japanese (NPCMJ) for syntactic research. NPCMJ is the first phrase structure-based treebank for Japanese that is specifically designed for application in linguistic (in addition to NLP) research. After discussing some basic methodological issues pertaining to the use of treebanks for theoretical linguistics research, we introduce our case study on the status of the Coordinate Structure Constraint (CSC) in Japanese, showing that NPCMJ enables us to easily retrieve examples that support one of the key claims of Kubota and Lee (2015): that the CSC should be viewed as a pragmatic, rather than a syntactic constraint. The corpus-based study we conducted moreover revealed a previously unnoticed tendency that was highly relevant for further clarifying the principles governing the empirical data in question. We conclude the paper by briefly discussing some further methodological issues brought up by our case study pertaining to the relationship between linguistic research and corpus development.
No matter how comprehensively corpus builders design their annotation schemes, users frequently find that information is missing that they need for their research. In this methodological paper I describe and illustrate five methods of adding linguistic information to corpora that have been morphosyntactically annotated (=parsed) in the style of Penn treebanks. Some of these methods involve manual operations; some are executed by CorpusSearch functions; some require a combination of manual and automated procedures. Which method is used depends almost entirely on the type of information to be added and the goals of the user. Of course, the main goal, regardless of method, is to record within the corpus additional information that can be used for analysis and also retained through further searches and data processing.
The principal barrier to the uptake of technologies in schools is not technological, but social and political. Teachers must be convinced of the pedagogical benefits of a particular curriculum before they will agree to learn the means to teach it. The teaching of formal grammar to first language students in schools is no exception to this rule. Over the last three decades, most schools in England have been legally required to teach grammatical subject knowledge, i.e. linguistic knowledge of grammar terms and structure, to children age five and upwards as part of the national curriculum in English. A mandatory set of curriculum specifications for England and Wales was published in 2014, and elsewhere similar requirements were imposed. However, few current English school teachers were taught grammar themselves, and the dominant view has long been in favour of {`}real books{'} rather than the teaching of a formal grammar. English grammar teaching thus faces multiple challenges: to convince teachers of the value of grammar in their own teaching, to teach the teachers the knowledge they need, and to develop relevant resources to use in the classroom. Alongside subject knowledge, teachers need pedagogical knowledge {--} how to teach grammar effectively and how to integrate this teaching into other kinds of language learning. The paper introduces the Englicious1 web platform for schools, and summarises its development and impact since publication. Englicious draws data from the fully-parsed British Component of the International Corpus of English, ICE-GB. The corpus offers plentiful examples of genuine natural language, speech and writing, with context and potentially audio playback. However, corpus examples may be ageinappropriate or over-complex, and without grammar training, teachers are insufficiently equipped to use them. In the absence of grammatical knowledge among teachers, it is insufficient simply to give teachers and children access to a corpus. Whereas so-called {`}classroom concordancing{'} approaches offer access to tools and encourage bottom-up learning, Englicious approaches the question of grammar teaching in a concept-driven, top-down way. It contains a modular series of professional development resources, lessons and exercises focused on each concept in turn, in which corpus examples are used extensively. Teachers must be able to discuss with a class why, for instance, work is a noun in a particular sentence, rather than merely report that it is. The paper describes the development of Englicious from secondary to primary, and outlines some of the practical challenges facing the design of this type of teaching resource. A key question, the {`}selection problem{'}, concerns how tools parameterise the selection of relevant examples for teaching purposes. Finally we discuss curricula for teaching teachers and the evaluation of the effectiveness of the intervention.
Previous work on light verb constructions (e.g. chorii kar {`}theft do; steal{'}) in Hindi describes their syntactic formation via co-predication (Ahmed et al., 2012, Butt, 2014). This implies that both noun and light verb contribute their arguments, and these overlapping argument structures must be composed in the syntax. In this paper, we present a co-predication analysis using Tree-Adjoining Grammar, which models syntactic composition and semantic selectional preferences without transformations (deletion or argument identification). The analysis has two key components (i) an underspecified category for the nominal and (ii) combinatorial constraints on the noun and light verb to specify selectional preferences. The former has the advantage of syntactic composition without argument identification and the latter prevents over-generalization, while recognizing the semantic contribution of both predicates. This work additionally accounts for the agreement facts for the Hindi LVC.
Vaidya et al. (2019) discuss argument alternations in Hindi complex predicates, and propose an analysis within an LTAG framework, comparing this with an LFG analysis of complex predicates. In this paper I clarify the inadequacies in existing LFG analyses of complex predicates, and show how the LFG+glue approach proposed by Lowe (2015) can both address these inadequacies and provide a relatively simple treatment of the phenomena discussed by Vaidya et al. (2019).
This paper compares a recent TAG-based analysis of complex predicates in Hindi/Urdu with its HPSG analog. It points out that TAG combines actual structure while HPSG (and Categorial Grammar and other valence-based frameworks) specify valence of lexical items and hence potential structure. This makes it possible to have light verbs decide which arguments of embedded heads get realized, somthing that is not possible in TAG. TAG has to retreat to disjunctions instead. While this allows straight-forward analyses of active/passive alternations based on the light verb in valence-based frameworks, such an option does not exist for TAG and it has to be assumed that preverbs come with different sets of arguments.
This paper contributes to the on-going discussion of how best to analyze and handle complex predicate formations, commenting in particular on the properties of Hindi N-V complex predicates as set out by Vaidya et al. (2019). I highlight features of existing LFG analyses and focus in particular on the modular architecture of LFG, its attendant multidimensional lexicon and the analytic consequences which follow from this. I point out where the previously existing LFG proposals have been misunderstood as viewed from the lens of theories such as LTAG and HPSG, which assume a very different architectural set-up and provide a comparative discussion of the issues.
This paper aims at presenting the first steps to improve the quality of the first draft of an Italian thesaurus for Cybersecurity terminology that has been realized for a specific project activity in collaboration with CybersecurityLab at Informatics and Telematics Institute (IIT) of the National Council of Research (CNR) in Italy. In particular, the paper will focus, first, on the terminological knowledge base built to retrieve the most representative candidate terms of Cybersecurity domain in Italian language, giving examples of the main gold standard repositories that have been used to build this semantic tool. Attention will be then given to the methodology and software employed to configure a system of NLP rules to get the desired semantic results and to proceed with the enhancement of the candidate terms selection which are meant to be inserted in the controlled vocabulary.
We propose in this paper a new, hybrid document embedding approach in order to address the problem of document similarities with respect to the technical content. To do so, we employ a state-of-the-art graph techniques to first extract the keyphrases (composite keywords) of documents and, then, use them to score the sentences. Using the ranked sentences, we propose two approaches to embed documents and show their performances with respect to two baselines. With domain expert annotations, we illustrate that the proposed methods can find more relevant documents and outperform the baselines up to 27{\%} in terms of NDCG.
Terms represent concepts, which consist of conceptual characteristics. In actual concept-term formation, which is done by researchers, the process is in reverse: conceptual elements/characteristics are consolidated to form concepts, which are represented by terms. As concepts do not exist on the fly, what we may call termino-conceptual system provides scaffolding in this process. Terminologists, both in practice and in research, do not only collect and list terms but also analyse, describe and define terms and systematise terminologies. To carry out these tasks, terminologists must refer to conceptual systems, to the extent that they contribute to systematising terminologies; terminologists thus also deal with the sphere of termino-conceptual system. In this paper, we consolidate the status of termino-conceptual sphere and propose a way to characterise the structure of termino-conceptual system by using entropy. The entropic characterisation of English terminologies of six domain, i.e. agriculture, botany, chemistry, computer science, physics and psychology are presented.
TemPO (TEMporalité, Pathologie orthophonique, Ontologie) is an attempt to transform a draft conceptual model created for the French orthophonie/speech and language therapy (SLT) community into an ontological resource focusing on language and communication pathology. It is interdisciplinary (SLT, linguistics, terminology and descriptive logic) and focuses on temporality as an entry point. It is part of a 3 step project aiming at harmonising European SLT terminology in order to facilitate communication about language pathology. The first step was to extract some characteristics using semantic and syntactic analyses, the second one is the creation and validation of the ontology (TemPO) and it will be followed by a larger multilingual terminological project at a European level. KEYWORDS: ontology, terminology, temporality, pathology in speech and language therapy. 
ion et pour l{'}analyse du dialogue. Nous d{\'e}crivons aussi les utilisation du Traitement Automatique des Langues dans le domaine m{\'e}dical. A BSTRACT Conversational analysis plays an important role in the development of simulation devices for the training of health professionals (doctors, nurses). Our goal is to develop an original automatic synthesis method for medical conversations between a patient and a healthcare professional, based on recent advances in summarization using convolutional and recurrent neural networks. The proposed method must be adapted to the specific problems related to the synthesis of dialogues. This article presents a review of the different methods for extractive and abstractive summarization, and for dialogue analysis. We also describe the use of Natural Language Processing in the medical field.
This study is a preliminary exploration of the concept of informativeness {--}how much information a sentence gives about a word it contains{--} and its potential benefits to building quality word representations from scarce data. We propose several sentence-level classifiers to predict informativeness, and we perform a manual annotation on a set of sentences. We conclude that these two measures correspond to different notions of informativeness. However, our experiments show that using the classifiers{'} predictions to train word embeddings has an impact on embedding quality.
Social media networks have become a space where users are free to relate their opinions and sentiments which may lead to a large spreading of hatred or abusive messages which have to be moderated. This paper proposes a supervised approach to hate speech detection from a multilingual perspective. We focus in particular on hateful messages towards two different targets (immigrants and women) in English tweets, as well as sexist messages in both English and French. Several models have been developed ranging from feature-engineering approaches to neural ones. Our experiments show very encouraging results on both languages.
Automatic summarization methods can be categorized into two major streams: the extractive summarization and the abstractive summarization. Although abstractive summarization is to generate a short paragraph for expressing the original document, but most of the generated summaries are hard to read. On the contrary, extractive summarization task is to extract sentences from the given document to  Departmet of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, CSIE E-mail: {M10615079; kychen}@mail.ntust.edu.tw  20  吳政育與陳冠宇  construct a summary. Recently, BERT (Bidirectional encoder representation from transformers), which has been introduced to several NLP-related tasks and achieved remarkable results, is a pre-trained language representation method. In the context of extractive summarization, BERT is usually be used to obtain representations for sentences and documents, and then a simple model is employed to select potential summary sentences based on the inferred representations. In this paper, an enhanced BERT-based extractive summarization framework (EBSUM) is proposed. The major innovations are: first, EBSUM takes the sentence position information into account; second, in order to maximize the ROUGE score, the model is trained by the reinforcement learning strategy; third, to avoid the redundancy information, the maximal marginal relevance (MMR) criterion is incorporated with the proposed EBSUM model. In the experiments, EBSUM can outperforms several state-of-the-art models on the CNN/DailyMail corpus. 關鍵詞：自動摘要，抽取式，BERT，強化學習，最大邊緣相關性 Keywords: Auto-summarization, Extractive, BERT, Reinforcement Learning, MMR 1. 緒論 (Introduction) 隨著網際網路的普及，傳統的電子佈告欄系統與新興的社群媒體、數位討論平台日益蓬 勃，大量的文字資訊充斥在網路媒體上。有趣的是，雖然存在大量可利用的文字資料， 但同時卻存在資訊氾濫的問題。資料檢索(Information Retrieval)的任務是依據使用者輸入 的查詢(Query)，對所有文章進行排序，從大量的資訊中擷取使用者需要的文章(Nogueira & Cho, 2019; Wu, Yen, & Chen, 2019; Yang, Zhang, & Lin, 2019)。雖然資訊檢索已能篩選 出使用者最可能需要的文章，但文章數量仍然相當龐大、內容繁雜且冗餘，使用者需要 耗費多餘的時間處理不必要的資訊，以便得知各篇文章的有意義的部分。為了進一步地 幫助使用者處理大量的資料(Pak & Paroubek, 2010)，自動文件摘要技術(F. Liu, Flanigan, Thomson, Sadeh, & Smith, 2018; Rambaut, Drummond, Xie, Baele, & Suchard, 2018)成了一 個重要的研究議題，他不僅可以快速地整理出每一篇文章的重點資訊，讓使用者篩選自 己所需要的資訊，在行動裝置的普及的世代中，如何再低頻寬下將資訊整理，在有限的 顯示面積下，呈現給使用者更多的資訊，也成了自動摘要一個很好的應用場景(Billawala, Mehdad, Radev, Stent, & Thadani, 2018; Leiva, 2018)。除此之外，電子媒體的發展，為了 商業行銷、剖析民論輿情或是調查社會意向等，促使自然語言處理與分析成為重要的研 究領域。其中，摘要的抽取與分析，扮演著很重要的角色。因此，文件摘要不僅常被用 於傳統的新聞大綱任務中(Maskey & Hirschberg, 2003; Maybury & Merlino Jr, 2005)，亦被 應用於輿情分析的任務中(Fan & Gordon, 2014; Imran, Castillo, Diaz, & Vieweg, 2015; Stieglitz & Dang-Xuan, 2013)。輿情系統必須對文章進行情緒分析判斷其為正面或反面意 見(Fan & Gordon, 2014; He, Wu, Yan, Akula, & Shen, 2015)，也需讓使用者更快速瞭解其  EBSUM: 基於BERT的強健性抽取式摘要法  21  所想知道的正反意見文章的內容，所以自動文件摘要就成為輿情系統中重要的一部分。 摘要的概念為使用較少的文字表達出文章中重要的中心意義，讓人們可以快速的篩 選自己所需要的資訊，減少吸收資訊的時間，但卻能了解到原始文章的內容，因此文件 自動摘要能有效解決資訊氾濫的問題。文件摘要最開始是由人工方式來進行文章摘要的 作業，雖然這樣的人工摘要品質高，但遇到大量且更新快速的應用，例如：線上新聞網 站、線上論壇、電子郵件…等等，必須耗費大量金錢以及時間，若自動摘要能夠有效套 用至上述各個應用，可為企業以及使用者提供更快速的閱讀體驗。然而，在現階段的應 用上，最常見且堪用的自動摘要方法是領導摘要(Lead)(See, Liu, & Manning, 2017)，領導 摘要是以句子作為基本單位來建構的，也就是將文章前幾句的句子蒐集並形成一個摘要。 雖然此類利用規則所建立之摘要有一定的效果、且易於實現，但其缺點是只能產生堪用 的摘要，並且只有像是新聞文章，通常以破題的方式在前幾句概述本篇新聞的重點資訊， 而適合用領導摘要法產生摘要。除了在文章中選取句子產生摘要的抽取式摘要法 (Extractive Summarization)外，重寫式摘要(Abstractive Summarization)也是目前主流的研 究方向。重寫式摘要需要電腦先對文章進行閱讀與理解，接著以生成的方式重寫出文章 的摘要。因此，重寫式摘要似乎可以產生較自然的摘要內容，但也可能因為產生不通順 的語句，而降低閱讀的流暢性(F. Liu et al., 2018; L. Liu et al., 2018; Nallapati, Zhou, dos Santos Gulcehre, & Xiang, 2016; See et al., 2017)；抽取式摘要是由文章中選取完整的句子 作為摘要，因此摘要的可讀性通常是較佳的，也因此，抽取式摘要法仍然是許多學者研 究的議題(Nallapati, Zhai, & Zhou, 2017; Narayan, Cohen & Lapate, 2018; Wong, Wu, & Li, 2008)。 近年來，由於 BERT 模型(Devlin, Chang, Lee, & Toutanova, 2018)的提出，許多自然 語言處理的任務皆取得了突破性的進展。在抽取式摘要的研究中，BERTSUM(Y. Liu, 2019)使用 BERT 取得每個句子的表示法，然後利用後續的分類器，為每一個句子評分， 作為是否選取句子的依據。此外，為了減少摘要的冗餘，BERTSUM 採用規則式的三連 詞過濾法(Trigram Block)，捨棄與已選摘要存在重複三連詞的候選句子，藉此減少摘要 中冗餘的資訊。雖然 BERTSUM 已在抽取式摘要任務中取得相當優良的任務成效，但我 們認為，BERTSUM 缺乏考量句子在文章中的位置資訊；此外，BERTSUM 是針對每一 個句子以計算交叉熵(Cross Entropy)進行訓練，目的為最大化與正確摘要句子的似然值 (Likelihood)，但交叉熵優化方式不需要對句子進行排名，且與摘要的評分方法 ROUGE 之間不存在對應的關係；還有，BERTSUM 僅使用簡單的三連詞過濾方法，減少冗餘資 訊的選取。有鑑於此，本論文提出一套基於 BERT 的強健性摘要方法 EBSUM(Enhanced BERT-based Extractive Summarization Framework)，他不僅考量了句子在文章中的位置資 訊，利用強化學習(Narayan et al., 2018)的方式讓摘要模型與評估方式的關係更為緊密， 也進一步地讓摘要模型本身具備減少冗餘資訊選取的能力。  22  吳政育與陳冠宇  2. 預訓練之詞向量表示法 (Pretained Word Embedding)  分布式向量表示法又稱詞向量(Word Embeddings)，是在自然語言處理中被廣泛使用的方 法，其目的是將每一個單詞以一個低維空間的分布式向量表示之。早期經典的方法有連 續詞袋模型(Continuous Bag-of-words, CBOW)、跳字模型(Skip-gram) (Mikolov, Chen, Corrado, & Dean, 2013)以及全局向量 (Global Vectors, GloVe) (Pennington, Socher, & Manning, 2014)。在這些經典的模型中，每一個字詞在不同的上下文中是以相同的詞向量 表示之，但許多字詞在不同的上下文中有著不同的含意，例如“蘋果”一詞，依照其上 下文，可能代表著手機品牌或者是一種水果。因此，為了讓每一個詞的表示法更加強健， 2018 年 Peter 首先提出 ELMo(Peters et al., 2018)架構，利用雙向長短期記憶模型(BiLSTM) 考慮上下文的資訊，為每一個位置的詞輸出相對應的詞向量，也就是在不同位置的同一 個詞，將有著不同的低維度向量表示法。接著，由於長短期記憶模型(Long Short-term Memory, LSTM)在模型參數更新時，無法以平行運算的方式加速計算，並且在一些任務 上已被證明 Transformer(Vaswani et al., 2017)架構的優點與效能，因此 OpenAI 基於 Transformer 架構，提出 GPT(Generative Pre-training) (Radford, Narasimhan, Salimans, & Sutskever, 2018)模型，用於學習每一個詞的詞向量表示法。隨後，基於 GPT，谷哥又再 提 出 BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) (Devlin et al., 2018)。  相較於 GPT，BERT 在模型架構上進行些許變動，首先利用 Transformer 中的 Encoder 取代 GPT 中的 Transformer Decoder，並採用雙向（Bidirectional）語言模型方式進行預訓 練，且訓練資料比 GPT 更大。此外，BERT 屬於多任務學習，在模型訓練時分為兩個步 驟，第一步驟是預訓練遮罩語言模型(Masked Language Model)，即隨機遮罩訓練資料中 百分之十五的單字量，並用[MASK]代替，讓模型利用[MASK]的上下文資訊預測 [MASK] 原本的正確單詞：  今天天氣真  ，適合去  野餐  (1)  為了防止模型無法收斂，在實作過程中，80%的訓練時間是使用[MASK]遮罩單詞， 另外 10%的訓練時間則使用一個隨機的詞當作遮罩，以及 10%的訓練時間給定正確的詞。 第二步驟，為了使 BERT 考慮到句子等級關係，因此除了遮罩語言模型，加入句子關聯 性的分類任務(Next Sentence Prediction)，即給予兩個句子，判斷第二句是否為第一句的 後續句子。更明確地，訓練 BERT 模型時的輸入如圖 1 所示，[CLS]表示句子的開頭，而  圖 1. BERT 架構圖。 [Fiqure 1. Illustration of BERT Model.]  EBSUM: 基於BERT的強健性抽取式摘要法  23  [SEP]表示分句，且在預訓練中每個位置的字詞由三種向量表示法相加而成，分別是位置 向量(Position Embedding)、詞向量(Token Embedding)以及段落向量(Segment Embedding)。 位置向量是用來表示這個字詞是位於輸入序列中的哪一個位置；段落向量則用於表示單 詞是位於上句 E_A 或者下句 E_B；最後，BERT 的輸入為此三種向量相加形成，而[CLS] 可以視為是整體的表示法，並且被用於句子關聯性的分類任務之中。 3. 基於BERT的抽取式摘要方法 (BERT-Based Extractive Summarization Method)  圖 2. 基於 BERT 的基準抽取式摘要法(BERTSUM(Y. Liu, 2019))架構圖。 [Fiqure 2. Illustration of BERTSUM Model.]  3.1 BERTSUM  由於 BERT 幾乎在所有類型的自然語言處理任務皆得到了相當大幅的效能提升，包括問 答系統(Question Answering) (Qu et al., 2019; Yang, Xie et al., 2019)、資訊檢索(Wu et al., 2019; Yang, Zhang et al., 2019)以及對話系統(Dialog System)。在自動摘要(Gu & Hu, 2019; Lebanoff et al., 2019; Y. Liu, 2019; Zhang et al., 2019; Zheng & Lapata, 2019b)的研究中， BERT 也已被用於抽取式摘要的任務之中。BERTSUM (Y. Liu, 2019)將一篇給定的文章 視為一連串句子的集合：  ,  ,⋯,  (2)  其中， 表示在 中第 個句子。在輸入的階段，BERTSUM 在每一個句子的開頭加入 [CLS]，並且在句子結尾加入[SEP]；另外，與 BERT 原論文相同，每一個句子皆有一個 段落向量；最後，每一個字的向量表示法即是將位置向量、詞向量以及段落向量相加而  24  吳政育與陳冠宇  成。BERTSUM 的特點是將第 個[CLS]標籤在 BERT 中最後一層的輸出，當作 的表 示法 。在訓練抽取式摘要器時，BERTSUM 將每一個句子 由 BERT 所求得的表示 法 經過分類器輸出分數，判斷是否為正確的摘要句子。若為正確的摘要句子，其值應 為 1；反之，不是摘要句子的分數應為 0 :  0  
ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) is a neurodegenerative disease. There is no cure for this disease, and it will make the ALS patients eventually lose their ability to use their own voice to communicate with others. Therefore, a personalized voice output communication aids (VOCAs) is essential for ALS patients to improve their daily life. However, most of the ALS patients have not properly reserved their personal recordings in the early stage of the disease. Usually, only few low-quality speech recordings, such as distortion compressed, narrow band (8 kHz), or noisy speech, are available for developing their own personalized VOCAs. In order to reconstruct high-quality synthetic sounds close to the original sound of ALS patients, voice conversion with speech denoising and bandwidth expansion capacities were proposed in this paper. Here, a front-end WaveNet- and a backend U-Net-based speech enhancement and super-resolution neural networks, respectively, were constructed and integrated with the backbone voice conversion system. The experimental results showed that the WaveNet and U-Net models can restore the noisy and narrowband speech, respectively. Therefore, it is promising to be applied to reconstruct high-quality personalized VOCAs for ALS patients. 關鍵詞：類神經網路、ALS、WaveNet Keywords: Neural network, ALS, WaveNet 1. 緒論 (Introduction) 漸凍症全名，肌萎縮性脊隨側索硬化症(Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis， ALS)，為一種逐 漸且要命的神經退化性疾病，ALS 患者因中樞神經系統內控制骨骼肌的神經元退化使大 腦逐漸完全喪失控制肌肉運動的能力，病程晚期會影響語言能力、進食、和呼吸系統的 運行，但此疾病並不見得會影響 ALS 患者的思考能力；相反，ALS 患者晚期依然維持完 整的思緒、具有發病前的人格、智力及記憶，所以病友即便影響到聲帶無法發出聲音， 但病友的思緒依然是然全不受影響的，在病友無法自身發出聲音與他人溝通的情況下就 需要用到音溝通輔具（voice output communication aids, VOCAs），目前 VOCAs 常用的  適合漸凍人使用之語音轉換系統初步研究  39  方法是使用文字轉語音(Text To Speech,TTS)來作為病友語音輸出，病友經過前端裝置輸 入文字再由 TTS 轉換成聲音，即便目前 TTS 已能模擬出非常接近人類的聲音，卻無法還 原出病友在未發病時的聲音特色，滿足病友想用發病前聲音說話的自我認同需求，且病 友家屬也強烈表示希望病友能用具有發病前個性的聲音與他們溝通。 如果要為病友建立個人的 TTS 需要病友在擁有大量的高品質音檔下才能完成，在一 般的情況下聲音的資料是非常容易取得的，只要將說過的話錄下來便能成為語料，但這 件看似簡單的事情對於晚期的漸凍病友卻不是如此，在病情發展到影響聲帶時，病友將 失去語言能力，或在配帶呼吸器的情況下要正常發音是非常困難的事情，所以只能仰賴 平日錄製的語音，但漸凍病友的病期難以推敲，且每位病友受病情影響的部位無法預測， 所以有預前錄製音檔的病友相當稀少，即便有數量也非常少。 在病友先前自行錄製中我們發現，病友家屬將以手邊最容易取得之錄音系統錄製音 檔，如手機或錄音筆，所以錄音語料面臨兩大問題，第一環境音雜音大無法正確分析語 音特徵，在實驗中有一位病友家屬提供我們的音檔為測錄音檔，冷氣的低頻聲與環境回 音發常嚴重甚至已經超過病友的聲音，聲碼器在提取聲音特徵時大受影響，完全無法有 效的提取特徵參數，使得後面的訓練一蹋糊塗，轉換出來的聲音富含嚴重雜音，根本無 法辨識為病友聲音，但病友無法再提供其他錄音檔，只有嚴重雜訊音檔為病友轉換音檔， 第二病友語料取樣頻率不足高頻完全消失，情況是病友家屬有事先幫病友保存語音，病 友提供我們一小時的語音，但經過處理後只剩下 16 分鐘可用音檔，音檔為 AMR 破壞性 壓縮，並且取樣頻率只有 8kHZ，聲音輸出少了高頻聲音顯得不真實，無法完整還原病友 發病前聲音，所以本論文將傳統語音轉換系統前級增加 Speech Denoising (Kuleshov, Enam & Ermon, 2017) 與在後級再以 Super-Resolution (Rethage, Pons & Serra, 2018)來改 善，如圖 1 所示。  圖 1. ALS 病友語音轉換系統圖 [Figure 1. Block diagram of the voice conversion system for ALS patients]  40  黃百弘 等  本論文將病友語音輸入前級加上 Speech Denoising 確保病友音檔輸入為無雜訊干擾 語音，在轉換後音檔後級加上 Super-Resolution 確保病友轉換音檔輸出為具有高頻的較高 品質音檔，期望經過這套系統不僅能確保病友已剩不多的語音，保持輸入訓練音檔品質， 也確保輸出為病友具有高頻還原語音。 2. 類神經網路語音轉換系統 (Neural Network-based Voice Conversion System) 本論文提出的 ALS 語音轉換系統如圖 1，輸入語音使用微軟釋出的 Hanhan TTS (Text To Speech) (Zen, 2015)，將病友語音經過前級 Speech Denoising 系統之後作為目標語者(病友) 之語音，建立個人語音轉換系統，最後經過後級 Super-Resolution 系統將病友高頻補足。 2.1 語音轉換模組 (Voice Conversion Module) 2.1.1 Bi-LSTM語音轉換 (Bi-LSTM-based Voice Conversion) Bi-LSTM 語音轉換系統架構，如圖 2，先將 TTS 來源語者經由 Vocoder 取出語者特徵， 在經過 Bi-LSTM 模型進行學習，轉換成病友語音特徵，最後經由 Vocoder 將特徵組合回 來，輸出病友轉換語音。  圖 2. Bi-LSTM 語音轉換系統架構 [Figure 2.Bi-LSTM-based voice conversion] 2.1.2 實現方法 (Implementation) 本論文語音轉換系統使用平行語料架構，系統第一步是要擷取來源與目標語者每一個音 框的特徵參數，再利用 Dynamic Time Warping(DTW) (Salvador & Chan, 2007)進行音框對 齊。在語音轉換的過程中，首先透過 Vocoder 來分析音檔裡面的資訊，分別包含了下列  適合漸凍人使用之語音轉換系統初步研究  41  三個重要的特徵 Mel-cepstral (Muda, Begam & Elamvazuthi, 2010)、Band Aperiodicity、 Log-F0，其中 Mel-cepstral 是聲音的頻譜，Band Aperiodicity 是非週期性的特徵用來判 斷聲音是否發聲，最後 Log-F0 決定聲音的音高，這些特徵參數將作為模型的輸入進行訓 練，在訓練之前因為來源語者與目標與者說話的速度不會相同，Dynamic Time Warping （DTW)解決來源與目標音框長度不同的問題。再以 DTW 的 alignment 結果，計算每一 個來源與目標對應音框，應該收縮（shrinking）、拉長（stretching）、還是保持不變（kept） 如下圖 3 所示。  圖 3. Dynamic Time Warping(DTW)演算法示意圖 [Figure 3. Schematic diagram of the dynamic time warping (DTW) algorithm] 接下來將 DTW 對其資料丟入 bi-LSTM 模型中訓練，LSTM 網路是一種特殊的 RNN 結構，可以描述時變的語音訊號，並且把之前的資訊帶到當前的訓練任務中，，LSTM 的結構能夠用來防止長距離依賴問題，也就是可以解決梯度消失的問題，bi-LSTM 是將 LSTM 與 BRNN 結合在一起，這種方法可以在輸入的方向或的長時的上下文信息，效果 優於 LSTM，經過系統訓練後會產生病友的個人語音模型，系統後級會將目標語者之 Mel-cepstral、Band Aperiodicity、Log-F0，重新經過 Vocder 組合，將病友轉換語音輸出， 最後我們就可以達到使用來源語者說任何語句都能轉換成具有病友語音個性的病友專屬 語音轉換系統。 2.2 語音強化模組 (Speech Enhancement Module) 在摘要我們提到 ALS 病友後期已經無法在錄音，但病友卻都沒有妥善的保存聲音，在處 理病友音檔時遇到兩大問題，第一環境音雜音大無法正確分析語音特徵，第二病友語料 取樣頻率不足高頻完全消失，在病友已經無法在錄製音檔的情況下，我們希望可以最大 限度使用病友已所剩不多的音檔，所以我們將這兩套系統加入傳統的轉換系統中。 2.2.1 語音消雜訊 (Speech Denoising) 語音消雜(Speech Denoising)的問題上，大多數用於語音消雜的技術使用頻譜圖作為前端 (Kumar & Florencio, 2016; Lu, Tsao, Matsuda & Hori, 2013; Parveen & Green, 2004)。然而，  42  黃百弘 等  這種做法帶來了潛在丟棄的缺點 有價值的信息（階段）和利用通用特徵提取器（頻譜圖 分析）而不是學習給定數據分佈的特定特徵表示，最近，神經網絡已經證明在處理離散 化音頻信號的樣本之間的結構化時間依賴性方面是有效的，有趣的是， 大多數這些生成 模型都是自回歸模型(Mehri et al., 2016; van den Oord et al., 2016)，WaveNet (van den Oord et al., 2016)是在自然語音上被廣泛利用得自回歸模型，本論文使用 WaveNet 模型建置 Speech Denoising，目標為最大保留已剩不多的病友語音。 2.2.1.1 系統架構 (System Architecture) 圖 4 為 Speech denoising 系統架構圖，將病友雜訊聲音經過系統消雜後，可以輸出較為乾 淨的病友語音，目標為保留病友乾淨語音供後端轉換系統使用。  圖 4. Speech denoising 系統架構圖 [Figure 4. Schematic diagram of the WaveNet-based speech denoising] 2.2.1.2 實現方法 (Implementation) 問題表述如下：mt = st + bt，其中：mt≡混合信號，st≡語音信號，bt≡背景噪聲信號。 目標是估計給定的 mt，本論文使用 FaNT[18]將雜音添加入乾淨音檔，所以將混雜噪音的 音檔當做 noisy voice，將乾淨的音檔作為 clean voice，系統先經過對齊確定兩個音檔長 度是否一致，再以 clean voice 減去 noisy voice 就可以得到我們事先添加的雜訊，將得到 資料丟入 Wavenet 架構下訓練，WaveNet 能夠合成自然的發聲語音。 這種自回歸模型 的形狀給出先前樣本的一些片段的下一個樣本的概率分佈，本論文的模型的描述在圖 5 中。 本論文所提出的模型具有 30 個殘餘層如圖 6，每層中的膨脹因子 以 2 為倍數增加 1，2，...，256,512。該模式重複 3 次（3 個堆疊）。 在第一次擴張卷積之前，1 通道輸 入被線性投影到 128 個通道 標準的 3x1 卷積，以符合每個殘留層中的濾波器數量。跳過 連接是 1x1 卷積，還有 128 個濾波器，在匯總所有後應用 RELU 跳過連接。最後兩個 3x1 卷積層未擴張，包含 2048 和 256 個濾波器，分別由 RELU 分隔。輸出層將要素圖線 性投影到 a 使用 1x1 濾波器的單通道時間信號，該參數化導致感受野 共 6,139 個樣本 （≈384ms），目標字段由 1601 個樣本（≈100ms）組成。  適合漸凍人使用之語音轉換系統初步研究  43  圖 5. WaveNet 模型架構圖 [Figure 5. Block diagram of the WaveNet model] 圖 6. 類神經網路殘差層架構圖 [Figure 6. Block diagram of the neural residue layers] 2.2.2 語音展頻 (Super-Resolution) 超分辨率(Super-Resolution)廣泛被使用來解決許多應用中的低分辨率問題(Park, Park & Kang, 2003)，這些技術重建或學習消失的高頻信息以增強成像系統的分辨率。最近，這 些技術已被有效地用於提高分辨率，主要是為了提高生物識別系統的識別性能包括 face (Lin, Fookes, Chandran & Sridharan, 2007)和 iris (Shin, Park, Kang & Park, 2009)，但多半是 圖像上的利用，在音頻上一樣可以使用超分辨率(Super-Resolution)來回復消失的高頻音 頻 ， 本 論 文 使 用 U-Net (Ronneberger, Fischer & Brox, (2015) 架 構 來 完 成 超 分 辨 率 (Super-Resolution)系統建置，目標為有效的恢復病友高頻的聲音。 
This thesis studies and implements the real time Chinese speech synthesis system. This system uses a conversion model of the text sequence to the Mel spectrum sequence, and then concatenates a vocoder from the Mel spectrum to the synthesized speech. We use Tacotron2 to implement a sequence-to-sequence conversion model with several different vocoders, including Griffin-Lim, World-Vocoder, and WaveGlow. The WaveGlow neural network vocoder, which implements the reversible codec function, is the most prominent, and is impressive in terms of synthesis speed or speech quality. We use a single speaker with 12-hour corpus implementation system. In terms of voice quality, the MOS of the synthesized system voice using the WaveGlow vocoder is 4.08, which is slightly 國立中山大學資訊工程學系 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University E-mail: ajcheng@g-mail.nsysu.edu.tw; cpchen@mail.cse.nsysu.edu.tw  54  鄭安傑與陳嘉平  lower than the 4.41 of the real voice, and far better than the other two vocoders (average 2.93). In terms of processing speed, if the GeForce RTX 2080 TI GPU is used, the synthesis system using the WaveGlow vocoder produces a voice of 10 seconds and 48 kHz in 1.4 seconds, so it is a real time system. 關鍵詞：文字轉語音，Tacotron2,WaveGlow Keywords: TTS,Tacotron2,WaveGlow 1. 緒論 (Introduction) 隨著科技的發展，人機互動的情況也越來越普及，像是 siri 語音助理、智能導航、有聲 讀物等都已環繞在我們生活裡。而其中，語音合成的技術就扮演了一個非常重要的腳色。 語音合成是透過機械、電子的方式產生人造語音的技術，文字轉語音技術也隸屬於語音 合成。而本研究則是致力於開發出一個可合成出更快且更為逼真的文字轉語音合成系統。 實現語音合成的方法有多種，其中包含參數式合成以及拼接式合成。基於參數式的語音 合成系統主要是透過統計學模型，利用學習出來的語音學特徵和其聲學特徵的對應關係 後，預測出相應的參數，接著聲碼器再透過這些參數合成出所期望的音頻。不過這種合 成方式最大缺點乃為無法合出接近人類的自然語音，在技術上尚未有明顯的突破。拼接 式語音合成系統則是透過同樣的方式去預測出這些聲學特徵，然後再到原始語音庫中找 尋近似的音素，最後拼接而成。不過這種合成方法也意味著合成的音質穩定性與語音庫 大小成正比。若要能合成出完善的自然語句，就必須要有齊全的資料庫，且同時為了不 延遲搜尋上的效率，更必須要有個良好的演算法。而上述這些方法，除了皆有著明顯的 人工痕跡之外，在專業領域上的門檻也都極高。幸運地，還有一種神經網路式的合成技 術，可利用神經網路直接學習從文本端到聲學特徵端的對應關係。 2. 研究方法 (Research Methods) 2.1 資料集 (Dataset) 訓練資料選自標貝資料集，是由「標貝科技有限公司」於 2018 年所開放。由一位女性錄 音者錄製而成，全長約略 12 小時，使用 48kHz 16bit 採樣頻率，錄製環境為專業錄音室 及錄音軟體，語料涵蓋各類新聞、小說、科技、娛樂等領域，詳細規格如表 1。  即時中文語音合成系統  55  表 1. 標貝資料集數據規格 [Table 1. Biaobei Data Specification]  數據規格  數據內容  中文標準女聲語音數據庫  錄音語料  綜合語料樣本量:音節音子的數量、類型、音調、音 連以及韻律等進行覆蓋。  有效時長  約 12 小時  平均字數  16 字  語言類型  標準普通話  發音人  女 : 20-30 歲  錄音環境  聲音採集環境為專業錄音室 1. 錄音室符合專業音庫錄製標準 2. 錄音環境和設備自始至終保持不變 3. 錄音環境的信造比不低於 35dB  錄製工具  專業錄音設備及錄音軟體  採樣格式  無壓縮 PCM WAV 格式，採樣率為 48kHz、16bit。  2.2 預測網路 (Predicted Model) 在前端預測網路部分我們重現了 Google 的 Tacotron2 (Shen et al., 2017)，並針對中文語音 合成系統做了客製化。在架構上面使用的是一個編碼器-解碼器(Encoder-Decoder)的設置， 並 加 入 了 位置 敏 感 的 注意 力 機 制 (Location sensitive attention) (Chorowski, Bahdanau, Serdyuk, Cho & Bengio, 2015)，整體架構如圖 1。而由於我們使用的是中文資料集，故在 文本的內容上先進行了資料的預處理，目的是為了讓神經網路可以學習到我們中文上的 韻律以及抑揚頓挫。由於漢字本身有數萬個相異字，同音異字的情況也不在少數，若以 窮舉的方式來對神經網路做訓練顯然不夠明智。我們處理的方式是使用漢語拼音作為字 元標註，並採用數字一到四來表示我們的聲調。雖然過程中都是以這樣的形式進行訓練， 不過在合成階段時我們可以藉由”pypinyin”的套件直接透過中文輸入合成出所指定的 句子。另外，為了提升中文語音的流暢度，我們也透過”jieba”斷詞系統針對文本的內 容先進行斷詞，我們利用 TrieTree 的結構去生成句子中所有可能成為詞的情況，並使用 動態規劃的方式找出最大機率的路徑。整個前處理的過程可參考表 2。  56  鄭安傑與陳嘉平  圖 1. 預測網路之模型架構 [Figure 1. The model architecture of the predicted network]  
To build a Retrieval-based dialog system, we can exploit conversation log to extract question-answer pairs. However, the question-answer pairs are hidden in the conversation log, interleaving each other. The conversation task that separates different sub-topics from the interspersed messages is called conversation disentanglement. In this paper, we examined the task of judging whether two  國立中央大學資訊工程學系 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Central University E-mail: zhixian989@gmail.com; chia@csie.ncu.edu.tw  64  劉至咸與張嘉惠  Reddit messages belong to the same topic dialogue and found that the performance is worse if training and testing data are splitted by time. In practice, it is also a very hard task even for human beings as there are only two messages and no context. However, if our goal is to predict whether a message is a reply to the other, the problem becomes much easier to judge. By changing the way of data preparation, we are able to achieve better performance through DA-LSTM (Dual Attention LSTM) and BERT-based models in the newly defined Reply prediction task. 關鍵詞：對話解構、回覆關係預測、BERT 模型應用 Keywords: Chatlog Disentanglement, Reply Relation Prediction, BERT Neural Model  1. 緒論 (Introduction)  企業線上客服系統的需求提升，使得客服系統的人力成本增加，若能夠建立自動對話系 統或聊天機器人（Chatbot）則可以有效降低人力成本。建立自動問答的 QA 系統或聊天 機器人的模型可分為 Retrieval-based 與 Generation-based 兩種，Retrieval-based 的方法需 要有預先定義的問答集，包含問題及對應的答案，適合特定領域的對話系統，因此我們 希望能從對話記錄中抽取出所需要的大量問答配對，建立 Retrieval-based 的客服系統。 從 互 相 穿 插 的 訊 息 中 分 離 出 相 同 主 題 的 會 話 任 務 稱 為 對 話 解 構 （ conversation disentanglement）。  典型會話訊息互相交錯的現象大多發生在多人聊天情境中，以圖 1 為例，表中為真 實世界的 IRC 聊天室片段，其中 Thread 表示使用者正在參與的會話。由於會話訊息互相 交錯，大部份使用者也會在訊息前加入回應的對象，以方便使用者區分不同會話的進行。  Speaker Elli Priscila Melda Arlie Leota Melda Elli Elli Priscila Julietta Jeanice Priscila  Message Any idea why 'passwd' would ask for a new password four times? Elli: A hacked version. is there a way to get ls -l to print full path in each response? Julietta, do whatever you want ... its an ethernet packet Jeanice: i had to replace most of the the startup scripts with just echo boo, the problem seemed to be with the kernel not being detected or something so it'll show /home/user/filename.jpg at the end of every single line? Priscila, yeah that could be a possbility except I just recompiled it from sources, thinking just that And still the same behavious Elli: Hmmm. Weird indeed .. Arlie, well, i can't, to actually inject valid packets i would need to modify the sockets state Leota: strange... and what errors did you get when you tried to compile? Melda: ls -l /home/user/*  Thread T77 T77 T78 T75 T71 T78 T77 T77 T77 T75 T71 T78  圖 1. 真實世界聊天室的片段 [Figure 1. Conversation log in real-word chat room]  基於訊息回應配對相似度估計的聊天記錄解構  65  圖 2 為客戶（Client）與客服人員（Staff）兩人之間的實際對話紀錄，其中 Topic 表 示 訊 息 的 內 容 分 類 ， 相 同 TopicID 的 訊 息 （ Messages ） 為 內 容 一 致 的 會 話 子 題 （conversation），因此理想的問答配對應由相同 TopicID 的訊息所組成，如訊息 ID (2,8)、 (4,6)與(5,9)的配對，不過我們更關注於客服人員如何回應客戶的描述配對(1,2)、(3,4)、(3,5) 等，從圖中我們可以觀察到即使在兩人的對話中，也有不同問答子題同時進行著。  ID Author Messages  TopicID  
With the growth of the Internet, the ready accessibility and generation of online information has created the issue of determining how accurate or truthful that information is. The rapid speed of information generation makes the manual filter approach impossible; hence, there is a desire for mechanisms to automatically recognize and filter unreliable data. This research aimed to create a method for distinguishing vendor-sponsored reviews from customer product reviews using real-world online forum datasets. However, the lack of labelled sponsored reviews makes end-to-end training difficult; many existing approaches rely on lexicon-based features that may be easily manipulated by replacing word usages. To avoid this word manipulation, we derived a graph-based method for extracting latent writing style patterns. Thus, this work proposes a Contextualized Affect Representation for Implicit Style Recognition framework, namely CARISR. Transfer learning architecture was also adapted to improve the model’s learning process with weakly labeled data. The proposed approach demonstrated the ability to recognize sponsored reviews through comprehensive experiments using the limited available data with 70% accuracy. Keywords: Reliability, Transfer Learning, Writing Style, Text Classification, Natural Language Processing.   Department of Computer Science, National Tsing Hua University E-mail: yenhao0218@gmail.com  16  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  1. Introduction With the popularization of the Internet and communication devices, information can be sent more quickly and widely than ever before. However, technological advances have also made it difficult to avoid incorrect information. Sponsored reviews, which have recently become a popular marketing strategy in online forums, can provide incorrect information. The intention of these articles is to give their consumers a positive impression of the product. Some advertisement companies have even begun to use sponsored reviews as a new method of promoting their commodities. Such sponsored reviews usually only provide positive information about a product. Thus, these reviews may hide the disadvantages of a product and potentially mislead consumers into making an unbeneficial purchase. As unreliable data may contain incomplete or incorrect information, it is important to avoid them. Most of the filtering approaches on online social platforms rely on mutual reviewing from users or human-designed rules. However, no matter which approach is used, automatic filtering is still limited due to the various methods of writing sponsored reviews and how quickly information is generated. Consequently, a system to automatically identify these kinds of information has become an important issue in the information reliability research field. In this work, we focus on recognizing the information reliability of review articles on online web platforms. Review articles are widely consumed by readers in order for them to purchase the best products. General filtering methods fail to address two main difficulties. First, current filters are easily fooled if the method only considers word-based characteristics; writers can simply avoid specific words/phrases to pass the filtering check. Second, there is a lack of defined and labeled sponsored review article data for testing reliability problems. It is difficult enough to manually collect these articles, let alone to create rules for automatically gathering them, because these articles are written by experienced writers. To address the first issue of keywords bias, this research focused on extracting the latent writing style of review articles to avoid specific word biases found in word-level methods. The presented research proposes a Contextualized Affect Representation for Implicit Style Recognition (CARISR) method to recognize the writing styles of various reviews. The proposed CARISR consists of an unsupervised approach for generating stylistic word patterns, which condenses patterns into distributed matrix representations, and a learning-based model. Sections 4 and 5 describe the details of the stylistic patterns and model, respectively. The biggest difference between the general methods and CARISR is that the latter defines two specific word groups, stylistic skeleton words (CW) and stylistic content words (SW), to capture the writing style information. A set of stylistic word patterns are extracted based on the constructive relationship of different stylistic skeleton words and content words  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  17  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  in the sentence. By adopting stylistic word patterns, the experiment results show that CARISR is more robust compared to the word-based approaches, including neural network methods. In other words, the contextualized effect representation model is less susceptible to changes to specific words. Consequently, CARISR has a better ability to deal with the first challenge, that is, to detect the implicit word usages of advertisement writers. For the second difficulty, the lack of labeled data, we defined our recognized targets as sponsored reviews (業配文), trial product reviews (產品試用文), and self-purchased product reviews (自購心得文). Since it is rare for sponsored reviews to actually be labelled as such, we introduced a similar class that is more easily obtained, called official advertisements (廣 告), as the weak label concept for model pre-training. The transfer learning approach can then be applied to the target label of sponsored review. This work proposes that the purpose of the sponsored review is more similar to official advertisements than self-purchased product reviews. This similarity allows for transfer learning to be adopted in our work. After preliminary training leveraging a large number of advertisements, the model should have the ability to classify the implicit writing style of advertisements. Further, we manually collect small amounts of sponsored review for transfer learning and fine-tune. The proposed model achieves around 70 percent accuracy and shows better robustness than the compared models, which demonstrates that our framework works successfully, even with the scarce sponsored review resources. To shortly summarize this research, we highlight the following contributions:  To quantify the problem of review articles’ reliability, we defined different levels of reviews and collect the corresponding dataset for the training model.  To prevent our model from being defrauded by intentional word selection, our model recognizes reliability based on the implicit writing style instead of word-level features.  To capture the implicit writing style, we first applied graph-based pattern extraction to the review articles. Then, we designed the embedding strategy of contextual stylistic patterns for the convolutional neural network model.  To overcome the insufficient quantity problem, we combined the weak label concept and the transfer learning approach to stabilize the learning process and improve the performance and robustness of our model. 2. Related Work 2.1 Information Reliability Information reliability research aims to distinguish whether the given information is reliable or not. Most of the information reliability research could be consider as credibility analysis on  18  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  news. The main difficulty of credibility analysis is how to find the effective features to identifying the news is reliable or not. To address the problems, the researchers attempt to extract different features, which could be categorized as the propagation-based, knowledge-based and content-based approaches. For propagation-based approach, social media could be one major domain for news sharing, the analysis within social media relies heavily on social context features like author profiles, retweets, likes, etc. Social media rumor detection (Derczynski et al., 2017) utilized conversation on Twitter to determine the veracity as RumorEval tasks. By modeling the sequence posts and behaviors on social media, researchers (Kochkina, Liakata, & Zubiaga, 2018; Ruchansky, Seo, & Liu, 2017; Volkova, Shaffer, Jang, & Hodas, 2017) proposed supervised method to detect the rumors and fake content. These approaches assume that the footprint and network of fake news are different from real news. Moreover, it has been shown that the spread speed of fake news is faster than real news (Vosoughi, Roy, & Aral, 2018). The propagation-based methods rely on social context feature; therefore, it is difficult to capture enough information for fake news detection right after the newly emerged news. Also, they are limited to social network for social context features. In contrast, this work studied reliability only on textual information, therefore, it can recognition the unreliable information in real time. Knowledge-based method includes the tradition manual fact-checked by expert and automatic factchecking (Shi & Weninger, 2016; Shiralkar, Flammini, Menczer, & Ciampaglia, 2017; Wu, Agarwal, Li, Yang, & Yu, 2014). Several organizations, such as PolitiFact and Snopes, investigate the news and related document to report the credibility of the claim. The manual fact-checking method is time-consuming and expert oriented, which is difficult to handle the huge amount of false claim in online news media. Thus, the automated knowledge-based fact-checking system has been developed. The system will extract the claims in news content and try to match the claim to relevant data on the external knowledge base. In our work, we do not count on the external knowledge bases or web evidences; instead, we extract the stylistic features from articles to automatically capture the implicit style of unreliable article information. Content-based methods aim to capture the keywords or writing style of malicious fabrication news from its content. The advantage of content-based methods is that it can immediately alarm the reader only from its content no matter the news is newly emerged or not. Previous works on content-based methods can be categorized into two groups by their method. One focused on the “textual content classification” (Al-Anzi & AbuZeina, 2017; Pavlinek & Podgorelec, 2017; Qu et al., 2018; Wang, Luo, Li, & Wang, 2017). It classified content by “Content words”, which were meaningful and different depended on the content. The other interested in “writing style recognition” (Gomez Adorno, Rios, Posadas Durán,  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  19  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  Sidorov, & Sierra, 2018; Rexha, Kröll, Ziak, & Kern, 2018; Stamatatos, 2009) which aimed to find out the articles that have the same style but different content. These word-based methods concerned more about the “Function words” and the structure of sentence, which were often regarded as less important part before. Several research Karimi and Tang (2019); Khan, Khondaker, Iqbal, and Afroz (2019); Wang et al. (2018) has shown the promising result by taking advantage of machine learning technique. However, Janicka, Pszona, and Wawer (2019) address the issue that the failure of cross-domain detection, which can be interpreted as a type of overfilling on the training domain. The work conducts the experiment on four types of domain including short-text claim, full-text content. generated fake new via Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT), and fake news on Facebook. The experiment shows that the model can fit well in the same domain, but the accuracy drops sharply when testing on the other domain.  2.2 Text Representation To represent unique characteristics of different text documents, several features extraction methods have been proposed. Before the widespread use of the deep learning models, there are many methods relied on the hand-crafted, lexicon-based and syntactic approaches. The hand-craft approaches are based on predefined dictionaries or linguistic resources such as the linguistic inquiry and word count (LIWC) affect lexicon (Pennebaker, Booth, & Francis, 2007). One of the advantages of using predefined dictionaries is that they are usually of high quality due to the rigorous process of labeling. However, this also presents a scalability problem as these features may not be representative of the dynamically evolving language used. The lexicon-based approaches automatically extract the representative tokens from corpus, such as bag of word (BOW) or term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF). BOW learns the distribution of word usages to present the corpus. By integrating the n-grams consideration, the token units of BOW could be extended to n words as phrases rather than a single word to extract more high-level features. TF-IDF further introduces the statistical concept to reduce the importance of common tokens, such as “the” and “or”. One of the benefits of the lexicon-based approach is that are robust to misspellings and the out of vocabulary (OOV) problems. However, it result in a extreme large size of vocabularies in memories and the curse of the dimensionality from the sparsity of vocabularies. The syntactic approaches including part of speech (POS) parsing tree and graph-based word pattern, which considering the relation among the words. The POS parsing tree converts words by the POS tags and models the syntactic structure of sentence. The syntactic POS tree benefits the understanding for sentence, however, the POS tagging process relies on predefined dictionaries and may encountered OOV and not perform stably for specific  20  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  terminologies or among different languages. The graph-based word pattern approaches (Argueta, Saravia, & Chen, 2015; Saravia, Liu, Huang, Wu, & Chen, 2018) analyze the hidden word relation by learning a word relation graph dynamically from the corpus. By adopting the graph analysis techniques, words that is important in the connection of graph structure could be extracted and used to construct the n-grams word patterns. As the word graph could present a longer connection of words than n-gram approaches, the hidden relations among words could be better preserved. The word pattern derived from graph structure learns the syntactic features of the corpus rather than n-grams key tokens; the syntactic word pattern is thus considered as a representation of the writing style. Although the method could learn the syntactic writing styles from word relation graph, however, the current approaches only focused on the English corpus. This work aims to leverage the benefits of word relation graph and propose the modification to extract syntactic writing style features from Mandarin corpus. In the deep learning approaches, words are embedded as the vector representations by different contextual learning techniques, such as word2vec (Mikolov, Chen, Corrado, & Dean, 2013) and GloVE (Pennington, Socher, & Manning, 2014). The word vectors preserve the semantic reasoning capabilities of the word and are treated as the input feature representations to the deep learning models, such as the sequence-modeling recurrent neural network (RNN) and the convolution neural network (CNN) which focus on the local pattern extraction. By integrating the traditional methods and the modern neural network approaches, this study proposes an approach that leverages the graph pattern features and a convolutional neural network model to identify the unreliable text information. The proposed model not only captures the textual and stylistic feature from articles but also has the adaptability for different writing styles. 3. Contextualized Affect Representation for Implicit Style Recognition To prevent keyword bias, we studied various writing styles with a focus on frequent word usages and corresponding co-located words for each writing style. In this work, we adapted the concept of graph-based pattern extraction approaches to dynamically learn the writing style of Mandarin product review datasets. This approach has been applied in related works on emotion analysis by extracting the word patterns for each emotion. In the following sections, we highlight the adaptation of the graph-based emotion pattern approach to extract stylistic word patterns as the writing style. The overall framework, which can be separated into stylistic pattern feature extraction (titles highlighted in orange) and model architecture (title highlighted in yellow), is shown in Figure 1. By constructing the word relation graph, the hidden word relations are preserved to enrich the stylistic words patterns in comparison to traditional lexicon-based approaches. A weighting mechanism was proposed to learn the significance of each pattern for each style.  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  21  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  Articles were first transformed into stylistic patterns by encoding each matched pattern and determining the corresponding score vector, which represents the article’s stylistic pattern. In this work, the pattern representations were treated as the input of a neural network model for document classification based on writing style features. The details of the stylistic pattern feature extraction and model architecture are summarized in the following subsections. 4. Stylistic Pattern Features Extraction  4.1 Stylistic Graph Construction  Given a set of corpuses  and the sentences in corpus , the sequences of word  are denoted as in sentence . The word graph then represents the graph structure for  the corpus set C, such that = ( , , ). Vertices is a set of nodes which represent  all the word tokens in corpus , and Ａ is a set of arcs that represents a bi-gram  relationship between each two adjacent tokens. For example, the tokenized sentence “用 _ 起  來 _ 還有 _ 飾色 _ 效果 _，_ 給 _ 你 _ 無可取代 _ 的 _ 透亮 _ 蘋果光 _ 唷  _！！” could construct the following bi-gram relations: “用 → 起來”, “起來 → 還有”, “還  有 → 飾色”, ..., “蘋果光 → 唷”, “唷 → ！！”. Note that the under-dash “_” shows how  the sentence is tokenized and the arrow “→” denotes the link relation in the word graph.  For the edge weights , instead of initialized with binary representation, which is align with the adjacency matrix, the edge weight , are defined as the bi-gram probability between two word tokens and in order to capture the significance of link relation. The bi-gram probability is designed with a denominator of global bi-gram frequency, the frequency of all the bi-grams, rather than the degree of word node or the frequency of out nodes from node . By comparing to all the bi-gram tokens, the word graph could better capture and compare the global significance for each node. Consistent to the setting of edge weight, the weighted adjacency matrix is designed as the matrix representation of the edge weights and defined in Definition 1.  By having the weighted mechanism, the word graph could have a better ability to preserve the syntactic structure of words by a graph representation.  Definition 1 (Weighted Adjacency Matrix) Let be the weighted adjacency matrix that each entry , represents the relation of word pair in the word graph :  ,  ,  ∑ , ∈,  ,  (1)  where the freq() denotes the frequency of two bi-gram words , or , .  22  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  Figure 1. The framework of CARISR.  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  23  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  4.2 Stylistic Word Extraction Writing styles vary from individual to individual. The idea that people utilize different distributions of words for different topics has widely been accepted in several topical methods, such as latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) (Blei, Ng, & Jordan, 2003). This work also uses this concept to extract and decompose the writing style into two elements: the stylistic skeleton and the stylistic contents. This work assumes that sentence and corpus are constructed by choosing the words of selected style to form skeleton and deciding the contents words to complete the sentence structure. To extract the stylistic elements, two types of graph analyses—centrality and clustering—were applied to the word graph . Each analysis method helps to generate a set of words: stylistic skeleton words (CW) (i.e., stylistic stop words) and stylistic content words (SW).  4.2.1 Stylistic Skeleton The stylistic skeleton represents the fundamental elements of word usages in a style, where such words should be widely used in all the corpuses of a given style. That is, all of the words included in the stylistic skeleton of a style should consistently appear in all of the corpuses of that style. In the structure of the graphical representation, skeleton words that represent a strong connection to other words are considered suitable candidates for stylistic skeleton words, as those words act as the fundamental nodes in the word relation graph . Inspired by Google’s PageRank (Page, Brin, Motwani, & Winograd, 1999), in which nodes with high connection word nodes contribute more importance than low connection word nodes, the eigenvector centrality was selected to measure the influence of each node in .  Definition 2 (Eigenvector Centrality) The eigenvector centrality is calculated as:  ∑∈  ,  (2)  where is a proportionality factor and is the centrality score of word node . Let be the corresponding eigenvalue, the equation could be rewritten into vector form Me = λe, where e is the eigenvector of M.  A word is selected as a connecter word if its eigenvector centrality is higher than the  empirically defined threshold  to ensure the quality of the high connectivity word. The  higher the centrality of a word , the more important the word is in the graph . By the  centrality measurement, a set of connector words with both high frequency and connectivity to  24  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  other high-rank nodes are extracted from the word relation graph and considered stylistic  skeleton words , such that  |  , ∈ . The examples of the  stylistic skeleton words in this task (the makeup advertisement dataset) were as follows: “我,”  “的,” “因為,” “肌膚,” and “特別.” The extracted stylistic skeleton words not only contained  numerous traditional stopwords but also style-specific words, which are known as stylistic  stopwords.  4.2.2 Stylistic Content The stylistic contents represent frequently appearing topics within a style, where topics could be formed by several separated words (i.e., LDA) or continuous word sequences. Apart from the skeleton, a topic could be presented by using the words in different ways; however, to represent the similar semantics of the topic, the topic words are generally interchangeable. For example, in the makeup advertisement dataset, there are several ways to describe the product’ s effect on skin care, such as “能 _ 有效 _ 保養 _ 肌膚,”“保護 _ 嫩白 _ 肌膚,” or “擁 有 _ 水嫩 _ 臉頰.” In the above example, some word tokens can be changed while keeping the meaning the same, such as “保養” to “保護” or “嫩白” to “水嫩” and so on. To capture the stylistic content cues, this work focuses on interchangeable word usages. By converting the style corpus in the word relation graph, the cross connections between these interchangeable word nodes are discovered. Such stylistic content word nodes tend to cluster with other nodes that share this or similar concepts. The clustering behavior in the graph can be measured by a graph analysis factor, namely the clustering coefficient, which determines how a node interconnects with its neighbor nodes. This work therefore applied the clustering coefficient to dynamically extract the stylistic contents, as shown below.  Definition 3 (Clustering Coefficient) The clustering coefficient is defined by clustering coefficient as:  ∑, , ,,  ,  ,  ∑, , ,,  ,  | |  (3)  where denotes the average clustering coefficient of node .  Similarly, the word nodes were also filtered by a predefined threshold  for  clustering coefficient to ensure the clustering quality. During the computing process of  clustering coefficient for each node , we discovered that there were many nodes with  high coefficients. However, many of them belonged to local mini-clusters in which the degree  of node was too small, resulting in too many specific words for stylistic contents. A  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  25  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  post-filtering step was then applied to remove the local mini-cluster and small cluster words  based on the number of triangles  of the word nodes , where less node triangles  indicated a smaller cluster. With the post-filtering step, a set of qualified stylistic content  words SW were retrieved, such that SW = {sw | > ,  > }, sw ∈ , where  denotes the empirical threshold for the number of triangles for the word node. Some  examples of stylistic content words in this task were “森林系,” “世界級,” “黏稠度,” and “可  愛感.”  4.3 Stylistic Pattern Construction  With the extracted stylistic skeleton and stylistic content words, this step aimed to construct the stylistic word pattern template. The stylistic word pattern is designed to capture hidden word usages in a writing style. For a word pattern, the length l of the pattern can be dynamic; that is, there may exist a longer stylistic word pattern (i.e., slogans) or a shorter one (i.e., topic tokens). In this work, a short length was adapted, as a longer word pattern may be difficult to match in a real-world case.  To construct the word pattern templates  , the permutation of stylistic skeleton  and content words, CW and SW, were adopted in our work using the rules below:   The stylistic skeleton words are required to exist in the pattern at any position as such words have the top connectivity in the corpus.   A word pattern could contain more than one skeleton words.  For example, in pattern length  3, each pattern feature is composed of an arbitrary  permutation, such as “cw sw cw” or “cw sw sw,” from the set of CW and SW. The word  patterns are then used to search the corpus set to retrieve the pattern frequency. The word  patterns that belongs to last 20% infrequent patterns are dropped, as they are not general  enough.  Instead of utilizing the word pattern by exact matching (bag-of-word matching) as n-gram does, this work adopts a flexible representation to increase the versatility of the pattern template due to the issue of easily overfitting for n-grams and pattern size consumption. Compared to the stylistic skeleton words, the stylistic content words are relatively easier to update or replace (i.e., develop new terms) as these are determined by the clustering coefficient, which captures interchangeable words. With respect to the stylistic content characteristics, various words that may be beyond the knowledge coverage of the training dataset could be used to describe a topic. Therefore, flexible representation was designed and performed by replacing the SW in the word pattern with a placeholder <*>, which means any token could be considered in the stylistic patterns during the matching process (i.e., “我 <*> 肌膚”, “特別 <*> 的”).  26  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  The flexibility of the pattern (the wildcard representation <*>) enables our model to possess robust generalization ability, which increases pattern coverage for dealing with out-of-vocabulary words and slang or coded words used in specific domains when extracting features during testing. The complete steps for stylistic word extraction and stylistic pattern construction are formally summarized in Algorithm 1.  Algorithm 1 Stylistic Pattern Features Extraction Algorithm  Calculate eigenvector centrality (e) and clustering coefficient (cl) for topic graph.  Set , ,  thresholds of centrality, clustering coefficient and number of triangles.  CW← a set of stylistic skeleton words TW← a set of stylistic content words for all node v in V do = number of triangles for v  if >  then  CW← v end if if > and > then SW← v  end if  end for Construct patterns P with the permutation of stylistic skeleton words and content words. for all pattern p in P do p = Replace the sw with wildcard (<*>) from p  end for  4.4 Representation of Stylistic Pattern With the stylistic word pattern, it is critical that how to transform a set of patterns to features for the classification. One of the traditional ways is to present the word pattern as a set of bag-of-patterns with the frequency or normalized frequency (probability of occurrence) as the numerical features. However, such bag-of-pattern representations limited in the current state-of-the-art deep neural network (DNN) models, which applied several word embedding techniques to present the hidden information for a word. Such embedding features are very flexible which could be utilized not only in traditional classifiers (i.e. support vector machine (SVM) or random forest), but also the DNN models.  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  27  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  Inspired from it, this work aims to proposed a flexible numerical vector representation  for the extracted word patterns in a pre-training manner which could perform as the initialized  parameters for the classification models. The numerical representation is designed to leverage  the uniqueness of each word pattern for each label, which is the style in this work. The  uniqueness of the pattern for different labels is calculated by a weighting schema, namely  identical stylistic degree. Formally, given a set of corpuses  and a set of possible  style  , where each corpus c belongs to a style s, the identical stylistic degree is  defined by three components, which are pattern frequency, inverse style frequency.  Definition 4 (Pattern Frequency) The pattern frequency pf is defined as:  ,  ,  ∑∈  ,  where freq , represents the frequency of the pattern p in the style s, and logarithmic scaled frequency of p in all the articles of the style s.  (4) , is the  Pattern frequency is designed to capture the frequently appeared word pattern under the assumption that the more a pattern exists in the corpus of a style, the more important the pattern is. As the frequency is dramatically different from pattern to pattern, the scale of the freq , score may encounter biased due to the large frequency gap. A logarithm function is thus applied to avoid the identical stylistic degree dominated by pattern frequency.  Definition 5 (Inverse Style Frequency) The inverse style frequency is computed as:  ∑ ∈  ,  ,  (5)  where  is the measurement of the rareness of the pattern p in all articles.  The inverse style frequency aims to decrease the importance for the commonly appeared pattern among many styles. The traditional inverse document frequency in TF-IDF is designed to examine whether the pattern exist in how many styles. However, the pattern frequency in a style is able to be treated as the intensity of the pattern existence. This work then refines the inverse style frequency by introducing the pattern frequency as indicator to calculate the cross styles uniqueness. Finally, the uniqueness of each stylistic pattern could be presented by the identical stylistic degree as below.  28  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  Definition 6 (Identical Stylistic Degree) The identical stylistic degree sd is calculated as:  ,  ,  (6)  where , is the identical stylistic degree that represents the importance of the pattern to the style s.  With the identical stylistic degree , , it is able to quantify the uniqueness of each stylistic word pattern for a style . The stylistic pattern is then able to present in a vectorized form = | , |, ∈ | |, namely stylistic pattern embeddings, where each component represents the identical stylistic degree , of pattern for a style . The flexibility of the proposed identical stylistic degree also allows the weighting schema to be extended when the number of styles | | is increased. 5. Model Training In this section, we describe the classification model and the transfer learning procedure.  5.1 Model Architecture  Due to the well performance of Convolutional Neural Network architecture on several text  classification tasks in the past, CARISR was based on Multi-layer ConvNet (Kim, 2014)  architecture, as shown in the bottom of Figure 1. Consider a set of corpuses  , , … , , … , where ∈ 1, . Each article was transformed into pattern  degree matrix  based on the stylistic pattern embedding described in previous section.  , where ∈ | |  (7)  where L denotes the parameter as the threshold for the maximum number of patterns for an article, and | | denotes the number of categories, respectively. If the number pattern for an article is less than L, it will be filled with zero as pattern scores. For the sake of brevity, we used to present single instance . Each entry , in the pattern degree matrix represented identical stylistic degree for pattern in category , where ∈ 1, | | , ∈ 1, .  X is following fed into three paths which are composed by 1-D convolutional layer with different filter size of 1, 3, and 8. The output is passed through a ReLU activation function (Nair & Hinton, 2010) that produces a feature map. A 1-D max pooling layer of size 3 is then applied to each feature map.  ,  _  (8)  (9)  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  29  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  the above two steps are simplified as following equation:  _  ,  (10)  where denotes filter size. Stacked with three  _ , the results were concatenated  together and passed through two fully connected layers of dimensions 256 and 16 in order.  ⊕⊕  (11)  (12)  Classification:  (13)  where ⊕ denotes the concatenate operation, is the output of stacked block which kernel size is . We used softmax to get the probability of each category and used cross entropy as loss function. In order to prevent overfitting to training data, Dropout was applied to convolution layers and fully connected layers. The corresponding dropout rate is 0.5 and 0.7. The L2 regularization is also applied in the loss function, and the coefficient is 0.05. We chose a batch size of 64 and trained for 12 epochs using Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2014). We used Keras (Chollet et al., 2015) to implement the CARISR architecture.  5.2 Transfer Learning Due to the difficulty of collecting labelled sponsored reviews and self-purchased product reviews, a limited dataset was available to train the classifier to distinguish sponsored reviews from self-purchased product reviews. Inspired by the idea of transfer learning, we predicted that the flexibility of the proposed stylistic patterns could enable the proposed model to be transferable. This research thus proposes a two-stage training process to recognize sponsored reviews. In the first stage, a large amount of advertisement and product review data were collected as weak label data to pre-train the CARISR model. In terms of writing styles, advertisements are designed to highlight the features of sale products, while sponsored reviews are written in a manner similar to trial reviews. However, sponsored reviews are considered a special kind of advertisement, as they aim to both introduce the product and spotlight it. More specifically, both advertisements and sponsored reviews have the same objective, which is to advertise the product in a positive manner. In other words, the model could learn the diverse writing styles of advertisements in the early stages (learning from advertisement) through the weak label pre-trained procedure. In the second stage, the transfer learning concept was applied to fine-tune the pre-trained model with what little sponsored review data were available. Having the prior knowledge of the advertisement writing style, the model could more easily learn to distinguish sponsored reviews. To fine-tune it, the parameters of CNN blocks were fixed, and the first fully  30  Yen-Hao Huang et al.  connected layer in CARISR was taken as the feature vector of articles. The feature vector was fed into another fully connected layer to examine the transformation from feature vector to classification result. This approach allows CARISR to distinguish sponsored reviews from true product reviews. In this two-stage transfer learning process, the model’s feature representation improved thanks to pre-training with a large amount of weak label data. It learned to distinguish the writing style of sponsored reviews and product reviews through fine-tuning with the small amount of true label data available. Based on the training process, we predict that even with the lack of true labeled data, the model could still perform well and avoid overfitting. 6. Experiments 6.1 Data To distinguish the sponsored and product review, this research utilized the transfer learning concept which leveraged user reviews and advertisement articles as pre-training corpus and fine-tune the model with sponsored and self-purchased product reviews. For the entire training process, two datasets are collected and introduced below. The first dataset was collected from UrCosme, a famous makeup product review website in Taiwan, with three classes Self-purchased product review, Trial product review, and Advertisement, where the three classes are tagged and verified by UrCosme. It has total 194,099 makeup reviews from 17,006 users from 2015 to 2018 June and includes 22,094 products and 4,594 articles from 498 brands. The second dataset was from PIXNET, an online social blog in Taiwan, makeup product-related articles are collected with three classes Self-purchased product review, Trial product review, and the target Sponsored review. Since there are no article tags provided from PIXNET, several rules are defined for identifying the three classes. Firstly, the Sponsored review are the articles which contain the URL links with specific blogger’s identification tokens. To trace the web reference from which bloggers to the product web page, this kind of URLs are widely been used to record the number of clicks and make profits to the bloggers. The text content from articles with specific URLs are collected with the Sponsored review label. Second, based on matching the keywords, “邀稿” and “試用”, to label the Trial product review and other normal product reviews are labeled as Self-purchased product review. After categorizing the articles, we manually pick 125 articles from each category as the PIXNET dataset and cross valid the dataset with 5 experts. To prevent our model learned from the specific contents, all the clues (including URLs and keywords, tokens that have used to create labels) are removed in advance. Due to the lack of the sponsored review, the UrCosme dataset is considered as the weak  Discovering the Latent Writing Style from Articles:  31  A Contextualized Feature Extraction Approach  label dataset for the main task, the classification of sponsored and product review. The PIXNET dataset is treated as the ground truth dataset as it is labeled by manual efforts. The detail data distribution of two datasets are shown in Table 1 and Table 2. The experiment 6.3 takes the training part of the UrCosme dataset for model pre-training but evaluates on the testing part of PIXNET dataset. In experiment 6.4, the completed PIXNET dataset is involved for evaluating the pre-training model from UrCosme dataset. For experiment 6.5, the PIXNET dataset is down sampled following the ratio 4:1 for fine-tuning and evaluating. Table 1. The data distribution of UrCosme dataset.  Advertisement Trial product review Self-purchased product review  Total 9,681 87,508 106,591  Training 9,681 10,000 10,000  Testing 2,423 2,423 2,423  Table 2. The data distribution of manual labeled PIXNET dataset.  Sponsored review Trial product review  Total 125 125  Self-purchased product review  125  6.2 Baseline Methods To represent a text corpus, the term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) has been widely used in several text classification tasks. It could automatically learn the important n-grams from the corpus and present the corpus based on the extracted important n-grams. Represented by the TF-IDF features, all the articles were transformed into TF-IDF feature vector with 2500 dimensions for the extraction of the important n-grams. In deep neural network (DNN) approaches, a text corpus is frequently represented by a sequence of the word vectors, namely word embeddings. The word embeddings could be either provided by a pre-trained word vectors or derived by the DNN models during the training procedure. In this work, a pretrained 400 dimensions word vector from YZU NLP Lab1, trained from traditional Mandarin Wikipedia, were applied as initialized representation to present the words. The word embeddings were set as trainable to be fine-tuned in the learning procedure. For the classification model, both traditional model and DNN model were applied in our 
Hsiu-Jui Chang, Wei-Cheng Chao, Tien-Hong Lo, Berlin Chen 摘要 近年來端對端(End-to-End)語音辨識的出現，簡化了許多傳統語音辨識的繁複 流程。端對端語音辨識中，最主要的模型架構分別為連結時序分類 (Connectionist Temporal Classification, CTC)與注意力模型(Attention Model)。本 論文嘗試結合上述兩種模型架構(即 CTC-Attention 混合模型)於華語會議語音 辨識之使用，以期能進一步提升語音辨識的效能。為此，我們分析模型結合時 混合權重調整的影響，並進一步探究 CTC-Attention 混合模型對於短句的辨識 效果。在中文會議語料的實驗結果顯示，相較於傳統語音辨識的 TDNN-LFMMI 模型， CTC-Attention 混合模型在語句較短時，可具有較好的一般化能 力 (Generalization)。 Abstract The recent emergence of end-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) frameworks has streamlined the complicated modeling procedures of ASR systems in contrast to the conventional deep neural network-hidden Markov (DNN-HMM) ASR systems. Among the most popular end-to-end ASR approaches are the connectionist temporal classification (CTC) and the attention-based encoder-decoder model (Attention Model). In this paper, we explore the utility of combining CTC and the attention model in an attempt to yield better ASR performance. we also analyze the impact of the combination weight and the  國立台灣師範大學資訊工程研究所 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan Normal University E-mail: {60647061S , 60647028S , teinhonglo , berlin}@ntnu.edu.tw  40  張修瑞 等  performance of the resulting CTC-Attention hybrid system on recognizing short utterances. Experiments on a Mandarin Chinese meeting corpus demonstrate that the CTC-Attention hybrid system delivers better performance on short utterance recognition in comparison to one of the state-of-the-art DNN-HMM settings, namely, the so-called TDNN-LFMMI system. 關鍵詞：CTC、Attention、端對端中文語音辨識、短句辨識 Keywords: CTC, Attention-based Encoder-Decoder, End-to-End Mandarin Chinese Speech Recognition, Short Utterance Recognition 1. 緒論 (Introduction) 隨著近幾年來深度學習技術的長足發展，在語音辨識任務上，深度類神經網路結合隱藏 式馬可夫模型(Deep Neural Network-Hidden Markov Model, DNN-HMM) (Hinton et al., 2012)與傳統的高斯混合模型結合隱藏式馬可夫模型(Gaussian Mixture Model-Hidden Markov Model, GMM-HMM) (Rabiner, 1989) (Gales & Yang, 2008)相比，在字錯誤率 (Character Error Rate, CER)和詞錯誤率(Word Error Rate, WER)有了大幅度的下降。然而， 儘管 DNN-HMM 已取得不錯的成果，但 DNN 聲學模型仍無法充分利用語音信號之時間 依賴性的缺點，為了更好地捕捉該性質，過往學者們引入了遞歸類神經網路(Recurrent Neural Network, RNN) (Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997) (Gers, Schmidhuber & Cummins, 1999)及長短期記憶模型(Long Short-Term Memory, LSTM) (Graves, Mohamed & Hinton, 2013) (Graves, Jaitly & Mohamed, 2013) (Sak, Senior & Beaufays, 2014) (Sak, Vinyals & Heigold, 2014) (Li & Wu, 2015)組成聲學模型。這類的聲學模型與 DNN 相同，在訓練時 仍是使用最小交互熵(Cross Entropy, CE)的準則，並且也能夠再進一步結合序列式鑑別式 訓練(Kingsbury, Sainath & Soltau, 2012) (Veselý, Ghoshal, Burget & Povey, 2013)得到更好 的辨識效果。 語音辨識可以視為一種序列對序列的任務，將輸入的語音訊號對應輸出的文字序列。 在傳統語音辨識器的訓練中，分別由聲學模型、語言模型及發音詞典構成，並且在訓練 DNN 前，還得透過預先訓練的 GMM-HMM 將聲音與文字強制對齊，因此需要額外的冗 餘步驟。有別於傳統的語音辨識訓練，CTC 訓練準則使得聲學模型可直接將聲學特徵透 過類神經網路輸出對應到的字符(Character)或音素(Phone) (Graves et al., 2013) (Graves, Fernández, Gomez & Schmidhuber, 2006)，甚至在資料量夠大(通常大於 3000 小時)時能夠 直接對應到單詞(Soltau, Liao & Sak, 2016) (Li, Ye, Das, Zhao & Gong, 2018)，並且在解碼 時可以不需要語言模型，這樣的做法稱之為端對端的訓練方式。另一方面，有鑑於 CTC 端對端模型的成功，且基於 Attention 的遞歸類神經網路已被廣泛應用於各個研究領域 (Bahdanau, Cho & Bengio, 2015) (Xu et al., 2015)，(Chorowski, Bahdanau, Serdyuk, Cho & Bengio, 2015)也將此模型應用於語音辨識的任務上，得到接近 CTC 的 WER。在後續其 他學者研究中，在大量語料的情況下，Attention 模型的 WER 甚至能逼近辨識效果很好 的 CLDNN-HMM 模型(Convolutional Long Short-Term Memory, Fully Connected Deep  探究端對端混合模型架構於華語語音辨識  41  Neural Networks, CLDNN) (Chan, Jaitly, Le & Vinyals, 2016)。 雖然端對端的訓練方式相較於傳統的 DNN-HMM 訓練更加簡單，但在少量語料下， 其效能仍與傳統的 DNN-HMM 模型有一段差距。為此，(Kim, Hori & Watanabe, 2017) (Watanabe, Hori, Kim, Hershey & Hayash, 2017)，使用 CTC-Attention 模型 (Hybrid CTC-Attention Model)。該方法為結合 CTC 與 Attention 模型的多任務學習架構，目的是 希望利用 CTC 彌補 Attention 模型對齊錯誤(Misalignment)及收斂慢的問題。在(Kim et al., 2017) (Watanabe et al., 2017)的實驗結果顯示，CTC-Attention 模型可在少量語料下，能夠 更接近甚至低於 DNN-HMM 模型的辨識率。因此，本篇論文希望基於此模型對於中文會 議語料的辨識做研究探討，我們的貢獻可分為： 1. 不同 Attention 機制的辨識結果：在長句測驗集實驗結果中發現使用 Coverage Location 效果比 Location 機制好，而在短句實驗則反之。 2. CTC 的權重對於辨識結果之影響：一般來說情況下，多任務架構訓練之聲學模型可優於 傳統 CTC 或 Attention 模型。 3. CTC-Attention 混合模型於短語句測試之影響：短句辨識任務上，當使用較大的 CTC 權 重作為解碼參數，可以得到最好的效果。 2. 方法 (Method)  2.1 CTC (Connectionist Temporal Classification)  給定一段長度為 T 的聲學特徵序列 X 及一段長度Ｌ的標籤序列 C，其中C  ∈ U|l  1, … , ，U 為存在的標籤集合。並且 CTC 引入了額外的空白標籤，作為標籤間的分界，  每個音框的標籤序列可表示為  U∪  | 1, … 。 X 對應 C 的後驗機  率可表示為：  |  |,  |  |  |  (1)  由於 CTC 假設每一時間下的聲音輸入對應字符為條件獨立，因此 | ,  | ，其  中 | 可以視為 CTC 標籤模型，可以分別由貝氏定理(Bayes’ Rule)、鏈式法則(Chain  Rule)展開。最後帶入條件獨立的假設可推導為：  42  張修瑞 等  |  |  |, :  ,  (2)  其中， 為字符級別的語言模型， 為每一狀態的先驗機率，  , 為狀態轉  移機率，為了使輸出有空白標籤，CTC 將上述長度Ｌ的標籤序列 C 調整為：  ,,  ,,  ,…  ′ ∈U∪  | 1, … 2 1  (3)  狀態轉移機率  , 可以表示為：  
Word based deep learning approaches have been used with increasing success recently to solve Natural Language Processing problems like Machine Translation, Language Modelling and Text Classification. However, performance of these word based models is limited by the vocabulary of the training corpus. Alternate approaches using character based models have been proposed to overcome the unseen word problems arising for a variety of reasons. However, character based models fail to capture the sequential relationship of words inherently present in texts. Hence, there is scope for improvement by addressing the unseen word problem while also maintaining the sequential context through word based models. In this work, we propose a method where the input embedding vector incorporates sub-word information but is also suitable for use with models which successfully capture the sequential nature of text. We further attempt to establish that using such a word representation as input makes the model robust to unseen words, particularly arising due to tokenization and spelling errors, which is a common problem in systems where a typing interface is one of the input modalities.
Fake news, rumor, incorrect information, and misinformation detection are nowadays crucial issues as these might have serious consequences for our social fabrics. Such information is increasing rapidly due to the availability of enormous web information sources including social media feeds, news blogs, online newspapers etc. In this paper, we develop various deep learning models for detecting fake news and classifying them into the pre-defined fine-grained categories. At first, we develop individual models based on Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), and Bi-directional Long Short Term Memory (Bi-LSTM) networks. The representations obtained from these two models are fed into a Multi-layer Perceptron Model (MLP) for the final classification. Our experiments on a benchmark dataset show promising results with an overall accuracy of 44.87{\%}, which outperforms the current state of the arts.
Thirukkural is one of the famous Tamil Literatures in the world. It was written by Thiruvalluvar, and focuses on ethics and morality. It provides all possible solutions to lead a successful and a peaceful life fitting any generation. It has been translated into 82 global languages, which necessitate the access of Thirukkural in any language on the World Wide Web (WWW) and processing the Thirukkural computationally. This paper aims at constructing the Thirukkural Discourse Parser which finds the semantic relations in the Thirukkurals which can extract the hidden meaning in it and help in utilizing the same in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications, such as, Summary Generation Systems, Information Retrieval (IR) Systems and Question Answering (QA) Systems. Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) is one of the discourse theories, which is used in NLP to find the coherence between texts. This paper finds the relation within the Thriukkurals and the discourse structure is created using the Thirukkural Discourse Parser. The resultant discourse structure of Thirukkural can be indexed and further be used by Summary Generation Systems, IR Systems and QA Systems. This facilitates the end user to access Thirukkural on WWW and get benefited. This Thirukkural Discourse Parser has been tested with all 1330 Thirukurals using precision and recall.
Poetry Generation involves teaching systems to automatically generate text that resembles poetic work. A deep learning system can learn to generate poetry on its own by training on a corpus of poems and modeling the particular style of language. In this paper, we propose taking an approach that fine-tunes GPT-2, a pre-trained language model, to our downstream task of poetry generation. We extend prior work on poetry generation by introducing creative elements. Specifically, we generate poems that express emotion and elicit the same in readers, and poems that use the language of dreams{---}called dream poetry. We are able to produce poems that correctly elicit the emotions of sadness and joy 87.5 and 85 percent, respectively, of the time. We produce dreamlike poetry by training on a corpus of texts that describe dreams. Poems from this model are shown to capture elements of dream poetry with scores of no less than 3.2 on the Likert scale. We perform crowdsourced human-evaluation for all our poems. We also make use of the Coh-Metrix tool, outlining metrics we use to gauge the quality of text generated.
Detection of TimeML events in text have traditionally been done on corpora such as TimeBanks. However, deep learning methods have not been applied to these corpora, because these datasets seldom contain more than 10,000 event mentions. Traditional architectures revolve around highly feature engineered, language specific statistical models. In this paper, we present a Language Invariant Neural Event Detection (ALINED) architecture. ALINED uses an aggregation of both sub-word level features as well as lexical and structural information. This is achieved by combining convolution over character embeddings, with recurrent layers over contextual word embeddings. We find that our model extracts relevant features for event span identification without relying on language specific features. We compare the performance of our language invariant model to the current state-of-the-art in English, Spanish, Italian and French. We outperform the F1-score of the state of the art in English by 1.65 points. We achieve F1-scores of 84.96, 80.87 and 74.81 on Spanish, Italian and French respectively which is comparable to the current states of the art for these languages. We also introduce the automatic annotation of events in Hindi, a low resource language, with an F1-Score of 77.13.
We describe the development of a knowledge graph from an event annotated corpus by presenting a pipeline that identifies and extracts the relations between entities and events from Hindi news articles. Due to the semantic implications of argument identification for events in Hindi, we use a combined syntactic argument and semantic role identification methodology. To the best of our knowledge, no other architecture exists for this purpose. The extracted combined role information is incorporated in a knowledge graph that can be queried via subgraph extraction for basic questions. The architectures presented in this paper can be used for participant extraction and event-entity linking in most Indo-Aryan languages, due to similar syntactic and semantic properties of event arguments.
This paper describes our first experiment on Neural Machine Translation (NMT) based query translation for Amharic-Arabic Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR) task to retrieve relevant documents from Amharic and Arabic text collections in response to a query expressed in the Amharic language. We used a pre-trained NMT model to map a query in the source language into an equivalent query in the target language. The relevant documents are then retrieved using a Language Modeling (LM) based retrieval algorithm. Experiments are conducted on four conventional IR models, namely Uni-gram and Bi-gram LM, Probabilistic model, and Vector Space Model (VSM). The results obtained illustrate that the proposed Uni-gram LM outperforms all other models for both Amharic and Arabic language document collections.
Acoustic features extracted from the speech signal can help in identifying speaker related multiple information such as geographical origin, regional accent and nativity. In this paper, classification of native speakers of South Indian languages is carried out based upon the accent of their non-native language, i.e., English. Four South Indian languages: Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil, and Telugu are examined. A database of English speech from the native speakers of these languages, along with the native language speech data was collected, from a non-overlapping set of speakers. Segment level acoustic features F0 and Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) are used. Accent partitioning of non-native English speech data is carried out using multiple classifiers: k-nearest neighbour (KNN), linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and support vector machine (SVM), for validation and comparison of results. Classification accuracies of 86.6{\%} are observed using KNN, and 89.2{\%} or more than 90{\%} using SVM classifier. A study of acoustic feature F0 contour, related to L2 intonation, showed that native speakers of Kannada language are quite distinct as compared to those of Tamil or Telugu languages. It is also observed that identification of Malayalam and Kannada speakers from their English speech accent is relatively easier than Telugu or Tamil speakers.
We present an approach for cross-lingual transfer of dependency parser so that the parser trained on a single source language can more effectively cater to diverse target languages. In this work, we show that the cross-lingual performance of the parsers can be enhanced by over-generating the source language treebank. For this, the source language treebank is augmented with its perturbed version in which controlled perturbation is introduced in the parse trees by stochastically reordering the positions of the dependents with respect to their heads while keeping the structure of the parse trees unchanged. This enables the parser to capture diverse syntactic patterns in addition to those that are found in the source language. The resulting parser is found to more effectively parse target languages with different syntactic structures. With English as the source language, our system shows an average improvement of 6.7{\%} and 7.7{\%} in terms of UAS and LAS over 29 target languages compared to the baseline single source parser trained using unperturbed source language treebank. This also results in significant improvement over the transfer parser proposed by (CITATION) that involves an {``}order-free{''} parser algorithm.
Autism speech has distinct acoustic patterns, different from normal speech. Analyzing acoustic features derived from the speech of children affected with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can help its early detection. In this study, a comparative analysis of the discriminating acoustic characteristics is carried out between ASD affected and normal children speech, from speech production point of view. Datasets of English speech of children affected with ASD and normal children were recorded. Changes in the speech production characteristics are examined using the excitation source features F0 and strength of excitation (SoE), the vocal tract filter features formants (F1 to F5) and dominant frequencies (FD1, FD2), and the combined source-filter features signal energy and zero-crossing rate. Changes in the acoustic features are compared in the five vowels{'} regions of the English language. Significant changes in few acoustic features are observed for ASD affected speech as compared to normal speech. The differences between the mean values of the formants and dominant frequencies, for ASD affected and normal children, are highest for vowel /i/. It indicates that ASD affected children have possibly more difficulty in speaking the words with vowel /i/. This study can be helpful towards developing systems for automatic detection of ASD.
Increased internet bandwidth at low cost is leading to the creation of large volumes of unstructured data. This data explosion opens up opportunities for the creation of a variety of data-driven intelligent systems, such as the Semantic Web. Ontologies form one of the most crucial layers of semantic web, and the extraction and enrichment of ontologies given this data explosion becomes an inevitable research problem. In this paper, we survey the literature on semi-automatic and automatic ontology extraction and enrichment and classify them into four broad categories based on the approach. Then, we proceed to narrow down four algorithms from each of these categories, implement and analytically compare them based on parameters like context relevance, efficiency and precision. Lastly, we propose a Long Short Term Memory Networks (LSTM) based deep learning approach to try and overcome the gaps identified in these approaches.
Computationally analyzing Sanskrit texts requires proper segmentation in the initial stages. There have been various tools developed for Sanskrit text segmentation. Of these, G{\'e}rard Huet{'}s Reader in the Sanskrit Heritage Engine analyzes the input text and segments it based on the word parameters - phases like iic, ifc, Pr, Subst, etc., and sandhi (or transition) that takes place at the end of a word with the initial part of the next word. And it enlists all the possible solutions differentiating them with the help of the phases. The phases and their analyses have their use in the domain of sentential parsers. In segmentation, though, they are not used beyond deciding whether the words formed with the phases are morphologically valid. This paper tries to modify the above segmenter by ignoring the phase details (except for a few cases), and also proposes a probability function to prioritize the list of solutions to bring up the most valid solutions at the top.
Neural network based word embeddings, such as Word2Vec and Glove, are purely data driven in that they capture the distributional information about words from the training corpus. Past works have attempted to improve these embeddings by incorporating semantic knowledge from lexical resources like WordNet. Some techniques like retrofitting modify word embeddings in the post-processing stage while some others use a joint learning approach by modifying the objective function of neural networks. In this paper, we discuss two novel approaches for incorporating semantic knowledge into word embeddings. In the first approach, we take advantage of Levy et al{'}s work which showed that using SVD based methods on co-occurrence matrix provide similar performance to neural network based embeddings. We propose a {`}sprinkling{'} technique to add semantic relations to the co-occurrence matrix directly before factorization. In the second approach, WordNet similarity scores are used to improve the retrofitting method. We evaluate the proposed methods in both intrinsic and extrinsic tasks and observe significant improvements over the baselines in many of the datasets.
India is one of unique countries in the world that has the legacy of diversity of languages. Most of these languages are influenced by English. This causes a large presence of code-mixed text in Social Media. Enormous presence of this code-mixed text provides an important research area for Natural Language Processing (NLP). This paper proposes a novel Attention based deep learning technique for Sentiment Classification on Code-Mixed Text (ACCMT) of Hindi-English. The proposed architecture uses fusion of character and word features. Non availability of suitable Word Embedding to represent these Code-Mixed texts is another important hurdle for this league of NLP tasks. This paper also proposes a novel technique for preparing Word Embedding of Code-Mixed text. This embedding is prepared with two separately trained word-embedding on Romanized Hindi and English respectively. This embedding is further used in the proposed deep learning based architecture for robust classification. The Proposed technique achieves 71.97{\%} accuracy, which exceeds the baseline accuracy.
In recent years Opinion Mining has become one of the very interesting fields of Language Processing. To extract the gist of a sentence in a shorter and efficient manner is what opinion mining provides. In this paper we focus on detecting aspects for a particular domain. While relevant research work has been done in aspect detection in resource rich languages like English, we are trying to do the same in a relatively resource poor Hindi language. Here we present a corpus of mobile reviews which are labelled with carefully curated aspects. The motivation behind Aspect detection is to get information on a finer level about the data. In this paper we identify all aspects related to the gadget which are present on the reviews given online on various websites. We also propose baseline models to detect aspects in Hindi text after conducting various experiments.
Automatic extraction of disaster-related events and their arguments from natural language text is vital for building a decision support system for crisis management. Event extraction from various news sources is a well-explored area for this objective. However, extracting events alone, without any context, provides only partial help for this purpose. Extracting related arguments like Time, Place, Casualties, etc., provides a complete picture of the disaster event. In this paper, we create a disaster domain dataset in Hindi by annotating disaster-related event and arguments. We also obtain equivalent datasets for Bengali and English from a collaboration. We build a multi-lingual deep learning model for argument extraction in all the three languages. We also compare our multi-lingual system with a similar baseline mono-lingual system trained for each language separately. It is observed that a single multi-lingual system is able to compensate for lack of training data, by using joint training of dataset from different languages in shared space, thus giving a better overall result.
Code-mixed texts are widespread nowadays due to the advent of social media. Since these texts combine two languages to formulate a sentence, it gives rise to various research problems related to Natural Language Processing. In this paper, we try to excavate one such problem, namely, Parts of Speech tagging of code-mixed texts. We have built a system that can POS tag English-Bengali code-mixed data where the Bengali words were written in Roman script. Our approach initially involves the collection and cleaning of English-Bengali code-mixed tweets. These tweets were used as a development dataset for building our system. The proposed system is a modular approach that starts by tagging individual tokens with their respective languages and then passes them to different POS taggers, designed for different languages (English and Bengali, in our case). Tags given by the two systems are later joined together and the final result is then mapped to a universal POS tag set. Our system was checked using 100 manually POS tagged code-mixed sentences and it returned an accuracy of 75.29{\%}.
English-Hindi machine translation systems have difficulty interpreting verb phrase ellipsis (VPE) in English, and commit errors in translating sentences with VPE. We present a solution and theoretical backing for the treatment of English VPE, with the specific scope of enabling English-Hindi MT, based on an understanding of the syntactical phenomenon of verb-stranding verb phrase ellipsis in Hindi (VVPE). We implement a rule-based system to perform the following sub-tasks: 1) Verb ellipsis identification in the English source sentence, 2) Elided verb phrase head identification 3) Identification of verb segment which needs to be induced at the site of ellipsis 4) Modify input sentence; i.e. resolving VPE and inducing the required verb segment. This system obtains 94.83 percent precision and 83.04 percent recall on subtask (1), tested on 3900 sentences from the BNC corpus. This is competitive with state-of-the-art results. We measure accuracy of subtasks (2) and (3) together, and obtain a 91 percent accuracy on 200 sentences taken from the WSJ corpus. Finally, in order to indicate the relevance of ellipsis handling to MT, we carried out a manual analysis of the English-Hindi MT outputs of 100 sentences after passing it through our system. We set up a basic metric (1-5) for this evaluation, where 5 indicates drastic improvement, and obtained an average of 3.55. As far as we know, this is the first attempt to target ellipsis resolution in the context of improving English-Hindi machine translation.
In this paper we present a deep multi-task learning framework for multilingual event and argument trigger detection and classification. In our current work, we identify detection and classification of both event and argument triggers as related tasks and follow a multi-tasking approach to solve them simultaneously in contrast to the previous works where these tasks were solved separately or learning some of the above mentioned tasks jointly. We evaluate the proposed approach with multiple low-resource Indian languages. As there were no datasets available for the Indian languages, we have annotated disaster related news data crawled from the online news portal for different low-resource Indian languages for our experiments. Our empirical evaluation shows that multi-task model performs better than the single task model, and classification helps in trigger detection and vice-versa.
Existing supervised solutions for emotion classification demand large amount of emotion annotated data. Such resources may not be available for many languages. However, it is common to have sentiment annotated data available in these languages. The sentiment information (+1 or -1) is useful to segregate between positive emotions or negative emotions. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised approach for emotion recognition by taking advantage of the sentiment information. Given a sentence and its sentiment information, recognize the best possible emotion for it. For every sentence, the semantic relatedness between the words from sentence and a set of emotion-specific words is calculated using cosine similarity. An emotion vector representing the emotion score for each emotion category of Ekman{'}s model, is created. It is further improved with the dependency relations and the best possible emotion is predicted. The results show the significant improvement in f-score values for text with sentiment information as input over our baseline as text without sentiment information. We report the weighted f-score on three different datasets with the Ekman{'}s emotion model. This supports that by leveraging the sentiment value, better emotion annotated data can be created.
This paper proposes a metric to quantify lexical complexity in Malayalam. The met- ric utilizes word frequency, orthography and morphology as the three factors affect- ing visual word recognition in Malayalam. Malayalam differs from other Indian lan- guages due to its agglutinative morphology and orthography, which are incorporated into our model. The predictions made by our model are then evaluated against reac- tion times in a lexical decision task. We find that reaction times are predicted by frequency, morphological complexity and script complexity. We also explore the interactions between morphological com- plexity with frequency and script in our results. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study on lexical complexity in Malayalam.
Complex NLP applications, such as machine translation systems, utilize various kinds of resources namely lexical, multiword, domain dictionaries, maps and rules etc. Similarly, translators working on Computer Aided Translation workbenches, also require help from various kinds of resources - glossaries, terminologies, concordances and translation memory in the workbenches in order to increase their productivity. Additionally, translators have to look away from the workbenches for linguistic resources like Named Entities, Multiwords, lexical and lexeme dictionaries in order to get help, as the available resources like concordances, terminologies and glossaries are often not enough. In this paper we present Kunji, a resource management system for translation workbenches and MT modules. This system can be easily integrated in translation workbenches and can also be used as a management tool for resources for MT systems. The described resource management system has been integrated in a translation workbench Transzaar. We also study the impact of providing this resource management system along with linguistic resources on the productivity of translators for English-Hindi language pair. When the linguistic resources like lexeme, NER and MWE dictionaries were made available to translators in addition to their regular translation memories, concordances and terminologies, their productivity increased by 15.61{\%}.
Often sentences of correct news are either made biased towards a particular person or a group of persons or parties or maybe distorted to add some sentiment or importance in it. Engaged readers often are not able to extract the inherent meaning of such synthetic sentences. In Bengali, the news contents of the synthetic sentences are presented in such a rich way that it usually becomes difficult to identify the synthetic part of it. We have used machine learning algorithms to classify Bengali news sentences into synthetic and legitimate and then used some rule-based postprocessing on each of these models. Finally, we have developed a voting based combination of these models to build a hybrid model for Bengali synthetic sentence identification. This is a new task and therefore we could not compare it with any existing work in the field. Identification of such types of sentences may be used to improve the performance of identifying fake news and satire news. Thus, identifying molecular level biasness in news articles.
Self-deprecating sarcasm is a special category of sarcasm, which is nowadays popular and useful for many real-life applications, such as brand endorsement, product campaign, digital marketing, and advertisement. The self-deprecating style of campaign and marketing strategy is mainly adopted to excel brand endorsement and product sales value. In this paper, we propose an LSTM-based deep learning approach for detecting self-deprecating sarcasm in textual data. To the best of our knowledge, there is no prior work related to self-deprecating sarcasm detection using deep learning techniques. Starting with a filtering step to identify self-referential tweets, the proposed approach adopts a deep learning model using LSTM for detecting self-deprecating sarcasm. The proposed approach is evaluated over three Twitter datasets and performs significantly better in terms of precision, recall, and f-score.
In this paper, we examine and analyze the challenges associated with developing and introducing language technologies to low-resource language communities. While doing so we bring to light the successes and failures of past work in this area, challenges being faced in doing so, and what have they achieved. Throughout this paper, we take a problem-facing approach and describe essential factors which the success of such technologies hinges upon. We present the various aspects in a manner which clarify and lay out the different tasks involved, which can aid organizations looking to make an impact in this area. We take the example of Gondi, an extremely-low resource Indian language, to reinforce and complement our discussion.
Word representation using the distributional information of words from a sizeable corpus is considered efficacious in many natural language processing and text mining applications. However, distributional representation of a word is unable to capture distant relational knowledge, representing the relational semantics. In this paper, we propose a novel word representation approach using distributional and relational contexts, DRCoVe, which augments the distributional representation of a word using the relational semantics extracted as syntactic and semantic association among entities from the underlying corpus. Unlike existing approaches that use external knowledge bases representing the relational semantics for enhanced word representation, DRCoVe uses typed dependencies (aka syntactic dependencies) to extract relational knowledge from the underlying corpus. The proposed approach is applied over a biomedical text corpus to learn word representation and compared with GloVe, which is one of the most popular word embedding approaches. The evaluation results on various benchmark datasets for word similarity and word categorization tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of DRCoVe over the GloVe.
Fake news detection is a very prominent and essential task in the field of journalism. This challenging problem is seen so far in the field of politics, but it could be even more challenging when it is to be determined in the multi-domain platform. In this paper, we propose two effective models based on deep learning for solving fake news detection problem in online news contents of multiple domains. We evaluate our techniques on the two recently released datasets, namely Fake News AMT and Celebrity for fake news detection. The proposed systems yield encouraging performance, outperforming the current hand-crafted feature engineering based state-of-the-art system with a significant margin of 3.08{\%} and 9.3{\%} by the two models, respectively. In order to exploit the datasets, available for the related tasks, we perform cross-domain analysis (model trained on FakeNews AMT and tested on Celebrity and vice versa) to explore the applicability of our systems across the domains.
This paper presents a novel approach designed to answer questions on a reading comprehension passage. It is an end-to-end system which first focuses on comprehending the given passage wherein it converts unstructured passage into a structured data and later proceeds to answer the questions related to the passage using solely the aforementioned structured data. To the best of our knowledge, the proposed design is first of its kind which accounts for entire process of comprehending the passage and then answering the questions associated with the passage. The comprehension stage converts the passage into a Discourse Collection that comprises of the relation shared amongst logical sentences in given passage along with the key characteristics of each sentence. This design has its applications in academic domain , query comprehension in speech systems among others.
The schema.org initiative was designed to introduce machine readable metadata into the World Wide Web. This paper investigates conceptual biases in the schema through a mapping exercise between schema.org types and WordNet synsets. We create a mapping ontology which establishes the relationship between schema metadata types and the corresponding everyday concepts. This in turn can be used to enhance metadata annotation to include a more complete description of knowledge on the Web of data.
In this paper we consider an approach to verification of large lexical-semantic resources as WordNet. The method of verification procedure is based on the analysis of discrepancies of corpus-based and thesaurus-based word similarities. We calculated such word similarities on the basis of a Russian news collection and Russian wordnet (RuWordNet). We applied the procedure to more than 30 thousand words and found some serious errors in word sense description, including incorrect or absent relations or missed main senses of ambiguous words.
GermaNet (Henrich and Hinrichs, 2010; Hamp and Feldweg, 1997) is a comprehensive wordnet of Standard German spoken in the Federal Republic of Germany. The GermaNet team aims at modelling the basic vocabulary of the language. German is an official language or a minority language in many countries. It is an official language in Austria, Germany and Switzerland, each with its own codified standard variety (Auer, 2014, p. 21), and also in Belgium, Liechtenstein, and Luxemburg. German is recognized as a minority language in thirteen additional countries, including Brasil, Italy, Poland, and Russia. However, the different standard varieties of German are currently not represented in GermaNet. With this project, we make a start on changing this by including one variety, namely Swiss Standard German, into GermaNet. This shall give a more inclusive perspective on the German language. We will argue that Swiss Standard German words, Helvetisms, are best included into the already existing wordnet GermaNet, rather than creating them as a separate wordnet.
Wikidata introduced support for lexicographic data in 2018. Here we describe the lexicographic part of Wikidata as well as experiences with setting up lexemes for the Danish language. We note various possible annotations for lexemes as well as discuss various choices made.
Semantic information about entities, specifically, how close in meaning two mentions are to each other, can become very useful for the task of co-reference resolution. One of the most well-researched and widely used forms of presenting this information are measures of semantic similarity and semantic relatedness. These metrics are often computed, relying upon the structure of a thesaurus, but it is also possible to use alternative resources. One such source is Wikipedia, which possesses the category structure similar to that of a thesaurus. In this work we describe an attempt to use semantic relatedness measures, calculated on thesaurus and Wikipedia data, to improve the quality of a co-reference resolution system for Russian language. The results show that this is a viable solution and that combining the two sources yields the most gain in quality.
Arabic WordNet (AWN) represents one of the best-known lexical resources for the Arabic language. However, it contains various issues that affect its use in different Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications. Due to resources deficiency, the update of Arabic WordNet requires much effort. There have only been only two updates it was first published in 2006. The most significant of those being in 2013, which represented a significant development in the usability and coverage of Arabic WordNet. This paper provides a study case on the updates of the Arabic WordNet and the development of its contents. More precisely, we present the new content in terms of relations that have been added to the extended version of Arabic WordNet. We also validate and evaluate its contents at different levels. We use its different versions in a Word Sense Disambiguation system. Finally, we compare the results and evaluate them. Results show that newly added semantic relations can improve the performance of a Word Sense Disambiguation system.
The paper presents an effort on transferability of noun{--}verb and noun{--}adjective derivative and semantic relations to noun-noun relations. The approach relies on information from semantic classes and existing inter-POS derivative and (morpho)semantic relations between noun and verb, and noun and adjective synsets. We have added semantic relations between nouns in WordNet that are indirectly linked via verbs and adjectives. Observations on the combination between the relations and semantic classes of nouns they link, may facilitate further efforts in assigning semantic properties to nouns pointing to their abilities to participate in predicate-argument structures.
In this paper we consider the linking procedure of Russian wordnet (RuWordNet) to Wordnet. The specificity of the procedure in our case is based on the fact that a lot of bilingual (Russian and English) lexical data have been gathered in another Russian thesaurus RuThes, which has a different structure than WordNet. Previously, RuThes has been semi-automatically transformed into RuWordNet, having the WordNet-like structure. Now, the RuThes English data are utilized to establish matching from the RuWordNet synsets to the WordNet synsets.
We describe how a natural language interface can be developed for a wordnet with a small set of handcrafted templates, leveraging on sentence embeddings. The proposed approach does not use rules for parsing natural language queries but experiments showed that the embeddings model is tolerant enough for correctly predicting relation types that do not match known patterns exactly. It was tested with OpenWordNet-PT, for which this method may provide an alternative interface, with benefits also on the curation process.
In this paper, we investigate mapping of the WORDNET hyponymy relation to feature vectors. Our aim is to model lexical knowledge in such a way that it can be used as input in generic machine-learning models, such as phrase entailment predictors. We propose two models. The first one leverages an existing mapping of words to feature vectors (fastText), and attempts to classify such vectors as within or outside of each class. The second model is fully supervised, using solely WORDNET as a ground truth. It maps each concept to an interval or a disjunction thereof. The first model approaches but not quite attain state of the art performance. The second model can achieve near-perfect accuracy.
This paper proposes a framework for investigating which types of semantic properties are represented by distributional data. The core of our framework consists of relations between concepts and properties. We provide hypotheses on which properties are reflected in distributional data or not based on the type of relation. We outline strategies for creating a dataset of positive and negative examples for various semantic properties, which cannot easily be separated on the basis of general similarity (e.g. fly: seagull, penguin). This way, a distributional model can only distinguish between positive and negative examples through evidence for a target property. Once completed, this dataset can be used to test our hypotheses and work towards data-derived interpretable representations.
In this paper we discuss how Walenty is using PLWORDNET to represent semantic information. We decided to use PLWORDNET lexical units and synsets to describe both the predicate meaning and the semantic fields of its arguments. The original design decision required some further refinement caused by the structure of PLWORDNET and complex relations between arguments.
In this article, we tackle the issue of the limited quantity of manually sense annotated corpora for the task of word sense disambiguation, by exploiting the semantic relationships between senses such as synonymy, hypernymy and hyponymy, in order to compress the sense vocabulary of Princeton WordNet, and thus reduce the number of different sense tags that must be observed to disambiguate all words of the lexical database. We propose two different methods that greatly reduce the size of neural WSD models, with the benefit of improving their coverage without additional training data, and without impacting their precision. In addition to our methods, we present a WSD system which relies on pre-trained BERT word vectors in order to achieve results that significantly outperforms the state of the art on all WSD evaluation tasks.
We propose a new algorithm for word sense disambiguation, exploiting data from a WordNet with many types of lexical relations, such as plWordNet for Polish. In this method, sense probabilities in context are approximated with a language model. To estimate the likelihood of a sense appearing amidst the word sequence, the token being disambiguated is substituted with words related lexically to the given sense or words appearing in its WordNet gloss. We test this approach on a set of sense-annotated Polish sentences with a number of neural language models. Our best setup achieves the accuracy score of 55.12{\%} (72.02{\%} when first senses are excluded), up from 51.77{\%} of an existing PageRank-based method. While not exceeding the first (often meaning most frequent) sense baseline in the standard case, this encourages further research on combining WordNet data with neural models.
In this paper we describe the merge of the Danish wordnet, DanNet, with Princeton Wordnet applying a two-step approach. We first link from the English Princeton core to Danish (5,000 base concepts) and then proceed to linking the rest of the Danish vocabulary to English, thus going from Danish to English. Since the Danish wordnet is built bottom-up from Danish lexica and corpora, all taxonomies are monolingually based and thus not necessarily directly compatible with the coverage and structure of the Princeton WordNet. This fact proves to pose some challenges to the linking procedure since a considerable number of the links cannot be realised via the preferred cross-language synonym link which implies a more or less precise correlation between the two concepts. Instead, a subpart of the links are realised through near synonym or hyponymy links to compensate for the fact that no precise translation can be found in the target resource. The tool WordnetLoom is currently used for manual linking but procedures for a more automatic procedure in future is discussed. We conclude that the two resources actually differ from each other quite more than expected, both vocabulary and structure-wise.
Stemming is a technique that reduces any inflected word to its root form. Assamese is a morphologically rich, scheduled Indian language. There are various forms of suffixes applied to a word in various contexts. Such inflected words if normalized will help improve the performance of various Natural Language Processing applications. This paper basically tries to develop a Look-up and rule-based suffix stripping approach for the Assamese language using WordNet. The authors prepare the dictionary with the root words extracted from Assamese WordNet and Named Entities. Appropriate stemming rules for the inflected nouns, verbs have been set to the rule engine and later tested the stemmed output with the morphological root words of Assamese WordNet and Named Entities by computing hamming distance. This developed stemmer for the Assamese language achieves accuracy of 85{\%}. Also, the authors reported the IR system{'}s performance on applying the Assamese stemmer and proved its efficiency by retrieving sense oriented results based on the fired query. Thus, Morphological Analyzer will embark the research wing for developing various Assamese NLP applications.
Creating word embeddings that reflect semantic relationships encoded in lexical knowledge resources is an open challenge. One approach is to use a random walk over a knowledge graph to generate a pseudo-corpus and use this corpus to train embeddings. However, the effect of the shape of the knowledge graph on the generated pseudo-corpora, and on the resulting word embeddings, has not been studied. To explore this, we use English WordNet, constrained to the taxonomic (tree-like) portion of the graph, as a case study. We investigate the properties of the generated pseudo-corpora, and their impact on the resulting embeddings. We find that the distributions in the psuedo-corpora exhibit properties found in natural corpora, such as Zipf{'}s and Heaps{'} law, and also observe that the proportion of rare words in a pseudo-corpus affects the performance of its embeddings on word similarity.
Constructing semantic relations in WordNet has been a labour-intensive task, especially in a dynamic and fast-changing language environment. Combined with recent advancements of contextualized embeddings, this paper proposes the concept of morphology-guided sense vectors, which can be used to semi-automatically augment semantic relations in Chinese Wordnet (CWN). This paper (1) built sense vectors with pre-trained contextualized embedding models; (2) demonstrated the sense vectors computed were consistent with the sense distinctions made in CWN; and (3) predicted the potential semantically-related sense pairs with high accuracy by sense vectors model.
AutoExtend is a method for learning unambiguous vector embeddings for word senses. We visualise these word embeddings with t-SNE, which further compresses the vectors to the x,y plane. We show that the t-SNE co-ordinates can be used to reveal interesting semantic relations between word senses, and propose a new method that uses the simple x,y coordinates to compute semantic similarity. This can be used to propose new links and alterations to existing ones in WordNet. We plan to add this approach to the existing toolbox of methods in an attempt to understand learned semantic relations in word embeddings.
With the increasing availability of wordnets for ancient languages, such as Ancient Greek and Latin, gaps remain in the coverage of less studied languages of antiquity. This paper reports on the construction and evaluation of a new wordnet for Coptic, the language of Late Roman, Byzantine and Early Islamic Egypt in the first millenium CE. We present our approach to constructing the wordnet which uses multilingual Coptic dictionaries and wordnets for five different languages. We further discuss the results of this effort and outline our on-going/future work.
Within a larger frame of facilitating human-robot interaction, we present here the creation of a core vocabulary to be learned by a robot. It is extracted from two tokenised and lemmatized scenarios pertaining to two imagined microworlds in which the robot is supposed to play an assistive role. We also evaluate two resources for their utility for expanding this vocabulary so as to better cope with the robot{'}s communication needs. The language under study is Romanian and the resources used are the Romanian wordnet and word embedding vectors extracted from the large representative corpus of contemporary Romanian, CoRoLa. The evaluation is made for two situations: one in which the words are not semantically disambiguated before expanding the lexicon, and another one in which they are disambiguated with senses from the Romanian wordnet. The appropriateness of each resource is discussed.
This paper describes our project on Japanese compound verbs. Japanese {``}Verb (adnominal form) + Verb{''} compounds, which are treated as single verbs, frequently appear in daily communication. They are not sufficiently registered in Japanese dictionaries or thesauri. We are now compiling a list of the synonymous expressions of compound verbs in {``}compound verb lexicon{''} built by the National Institute of Japanese Language and Linguistics. We extracted synonymous words and phrases of compound verbs from five hundred million Japanese web corpora. As a result, synonymous expressions of 1800 compound verbs were obtained automatically among 2700 in the {``}compound verb lexicon{''}. From our data, we observed that some compound verbs represent not only motion but also additional nuances such as an emotional one. In order to reflect the abundant meanings that compound verbs own, we will try to think of a link of synonymous expressions to Japanese wordnet. Concretely, in the case of synonymous phrases, we try to link adverbial expressions which are a part of phrases to the adverbial synset in Japanese wordnet.
The African Wordnet Project (AWN) includes all nine indigenous South African languages, namely isiZulu, isiXhosa, Setswana, Sesotho sa Leboa, Tshivenda, Siswati, Sesotho, isiNdebele and Xitsonga. The AWN currently includes 61 000 synsets as well as definitions and usage examples for a large part of the synsets. The project recently received extended funding from the South African Centre for Digital Language Resources (SADiLaR) and aims to update all aspects of the current resource, including the seed list used for new development, software tools used and mapping the AWN to the latest version of PWN 3.1. As with any resource development project, it is essential to also include phases of focused quality assurance and updating of the basis on which the resource is built. The African languages remain under-resourced. This paper describes progress made in the development of the AWN as well as recent technical improvements.
We describe a detailed analysis of a sample of large benchmark of commonsense reasoning problems that has been automatically obtained from WordNet, SUMO and their mapping. The objective is to provide a better assessment of the quality of both the benchmark and the involved knowledge resources for advanced commonsense reasoning tasks. By means of this analysis, we are able to detect some knowledge misalignments, mapping errors and lack of knowledge and resources. Our final objective is the extraction of some guidelines towards a better exploitation of this commonsense knowledge framework by the improvement of the included resources.
This paper reports on the development of the Cantonese Wordnet, a new wordnet project based on Hong Kong Cantonese. It is built using the expansion approach, leveraging on the existing Chinese Open Wordnet, and the Princeton Wordnet{'}s semantic hierarchy. The main goal of our project was to produce a high quality, human-curated resource {--} and this paper reports on the initial efforts and steady progress of our building method. It is our belief that the lexical data made available by this wordnet, including Jyutping romanization, will be useful for a variety of future uses, including many language processing tasks and linguistic research on Cantonese and its interactions with other Chinese dialects.
Event detection is an important NLP task that has been only recently tackled in the context of Polish, mostly due to lack of language resources. The available annotated corpora are still relatively small and supervised learning approaches are limited by the size of training datasets. Event detection tools are very much needed, as they can be used to annotate more language resources automatically and to improve the accuracy of other NLP tasks, which rely on the detection of events, such as question answering or machine translation. In this paper we present a deep learning based approach to this task, which proved to capture the knowledge contained in the training data most effectively and outperform previously proposed methods. We show a direct comparison to previously published results, using the same data and experimental setup.
When teaching language for specific purposes (LSP) linguistic resources are needed to help students understand and write specialised texts. As building a lexical resource is costly, we explore the use of wordnets to represent the terms that can be found in particular textual domains. In order to gather the terms to be included in wordnets, we propose a textual genre approach, that leads us to introduce a new relation term used in to link all the possible terms/synsets that can appear in a text to the synset of the textual genre. This way, students can use wordnet as dictionary or thesaurus when writing specialised texts. We explain our approach by means of the logbooks and terms in Basque. A side effect of this works is also enriching the wordnets with new variants and synsets.
We fit WordNet relations to word embeddings, using 3CosAvg and LRCos, two set-based methods for analogy resolution, and introduce 3CosWeight, a new, weighted variant of 3CosAvg. We test the performance of the resulting semantic vectors in lexicographic semantics tests, and show that none of the tested classifiers can learn symmetric relations like synonymy and antonymy, since the source and target words of these relations are the same set. By contrast, with the asymmetric relations (hyperonymy / hyponymy and meronymy), both 3CosAvg and LRCos clearly outperform the baseline in all cases, while 3CosWeight attained the best scores with hyponymy and meronymy, suggesting that this new method could provide a useful alternative to previous approaches.
This paper presents the Mongolian Wordnet (MOW), and a general methodology of how to construct it from various sources e.g. lexical resources and expert translations. As of today, the MOW contains 23,665 synsets, 26,875 words, 2,979 glosses, and 213 examples. The manual evaluation of the resource1 estimated its quality at 96.4{\%}.
We describe the release of a new wordnet for English based on the Princeton WordNet, but now developed under an open-source model. In particular, this version of WordNet, which we call English WordNet 2019, which has been developed by multiple people around the world through GitHub, fixes many errors in previous wordnets for English. We give some details of the changes that have been made in this version and give some perspectives about likely future changes that will be made as this project continues to evolve.
An effective conversion method was proposed in the literature to obtain a lexical semantic space from a lexical semantic graph, thus permitting to obtain WordNet embeddings from WordNets. In this paper, we propose the exploitation of this conversion methodology as the basis for the comparative assessment of WordNets: given two WordNets, their relative quality in terms of capturing the lexical semantics of a given language, can be assessed by (i) converting each WordNet into the corresponding semantic space (i.e. into WordNet embeddings), (ii) evaluating the resulting WordNet embeddings under the typical semantic similarity prediction task used to evaluate word embeddings in general; and (iii) comparing the performance in that task of the two word embeddings, extracted from the two WordNets. A better performance in that evaluation task results from the word embeddings that are better at capturing the semantic similarity of words, which, in turn, result from the WordNet that is of higher quality at capturing the semantics of words.
WordNets have been used in a wide variety of applications, including in design and development of intelligent and human assisting systems. Although WordNet was initially developed as an online lexical database, (Miller, 1995 and Fellbaum, 1998) later developments have inspired using WordNet database as resources in NLP applications, Language Technology developments, and as sources of structured learned materials. This paper proposes, conceptualizes, designs, and develops a voice enabled information retrieval system, facilitating WordNet knowledge presentation in a spoken format, based on a spoken query. In practice, the work converts the WordNet resource into a structured voiced based knowledge extraction system, where a spoken query is processed in a pipeline, and then extracting the relevant WordNet resources, structuring through another process pipeline, and then presented in spoken format. Thus the system facilitates a speech interface to the existing WordNet and we named the system as {``}Spoken WordNet{''}. The system interacts with two interfaces, one designed and developed for Web, and the other as an App interface for smartphone. This is also a kind of restructuring the WordNet as a friendly version for visually challenged users. User can input query string in the form of spoken English sentence or word. Jaccard Similarity is calculated between the input sentence and the synset definitions. The one with highest similarity score is taken as the synset of interest among multiple available synsets. User is also prompted to choose a contextual synset, in case of ambiguities.
In this paper we describe our current work on representing a recently created German lexical semantics resource in OntoLex-Lemon and in conformance with WordNet specifications. Besides presenting the representation effort, we show the utilization of OntoLex-Lemon to bridge from WordNet-like resources to full lexical descriptions and extend the coverage of WordNets to other types of lexical data, such as decomposition results, exemplified for German data, and inflectional phenomena, here outlined for English data.
In this paper, we present semi-automatic annotation of the Event Structure Frames to synsets of English verbs in WordNet. The Event Structure Frame is a sub-eventual structure frame which combines event structure (lexical aspect) with argument structure represented by semantic roles and opposition structure which represents the presupposed and entailed sub-events of a matrix event. Our annotation work is done semi-automatically by GESL-based automatic annotation and manual error-correction. GESL is an automatic annotation tool of the Event Structure Frame to verbs in a sentence. We apply GESL to the example sentence given for each synset of a verb in WordNet. We expect that our work will make WordNet much more useful for any NLP and its applications which require lexical semantic information of English verbs.
The paper presents current efforts towards linking two large lexical semantic resources {--} WordNet and FrameNet {--} to the end of their mutual enrichment and the facilitation of the access, extraction and analysis of various types of semantic and syntactic information. In the second part of the paper, we go on to examine the relation of inheritance and other semantic relations as represented in WordNet and FrameNet and how they correspond to each other when the resources are aligned. We discuss the implications with respect to the enhancement of the two resources through the definition of new relations and the detailisation of conceptual frames.
The paper reports on an ongoing work that manually maps the Bulgarian WordNet BTB-WN with Bulgarian Wikipedia. The preparatory work of extracting the Wikipedia articles and provisionally relating them to the WordNet lemmas was done automatically. The manual work includes checking of the corresponding senses in both resources as well as the missing ones. The main cases of mapping are considered. The first experiments of mapping about 1000 synsets show the establishment of more than 78 {\%} of exact correspondences and nearly 15 {\%} of new synsets.
This paper reports our efforts in constructing a sense-labeled English-Turkish parallel corpus using the traditional method of manual tagging. We tagged a pre-built parallel treebank which was translated from the Penn Treebank corpus. This approach allowed us to generate a resource combining syntactic and semantic information. We provide statistics about the corpus itself as well as information regarding its development process.
Given the fact that verbs play a crucial role in language comprehension, this paper presents a study which compares the verb senses in English PropBank with the ones in English WordNet through manual tagging. After analyzing 1554 senses in 1453 distinct verbs, we have found out that while the majority of the senses in PropBank have their one-to-one correspondents in WordNet, a substantial amount of them are differentiated. Furthermore, by analysing the differences between our manually-tagged and an automatically-tagged resource, we claim that manual tagging can help provide better results in sense annotation.
We discuss the creation of ASLNet by aligning the Princeton WordNet (PWN) with SignStudy, an online database of American Sign Language (ASL) signs. This alignment will have many immediate benefits for first and second-sign language learners as well as ASL researchers by highlighting semantic relations among signs. We begin to address the interesting theoretical question of to what extent the wordnet-style organization of the English lexicon (and those of wordnets in other spoken languages) is applicable to ASL, and whether ASL requires positing additional, language or modality-specific relations among signs. Significantly, the mapping of SignStudy and PWN provides a bridge between ASL and the worldwide wordnet community, which comprises speakers of dozens of languages working in academic and language technology settings.
A collaborative system for wordnet construction and maintenance is presented. Its key modules include WordnetLoom editor, Wordnet Tracker and JavaScript Graph. They offer a number of functionalities that allow solving problems on every stage of building, editing and aligning wordnets by teams of lexicographers working in parallel. The experience collected in recent years has allowed us to refine applications and add new modules to provide the best user experience in a reliable and easily maintainable way.
In the paper, we study the case of building a keywords database related to the Polish Classification of Activities (PKD 2007). The database enables automatic classification of the companies to the industry branches. The classification is performed based on the company{'}s activity description. We present the initial design of the keywords database and the ways in which wordnets were used to enrich it. Finally, we present the preliminary statistical evaluation of the produced resource.
In this paper we present a novel method for emotive propagation in a wordnet based on a large emotive seed. We introduce a sense-level emotive lexicon annotated with polarity, arousal and emotions. The data were annotated as a part of a large study involving over 20,000 participants. A total of 30,000 lexical units in Polish WordNet were described with metadata, each unit received about 50 annotations concerning polarity, arousal and 8 basic emotions, marked on a multilevel scale. We present a preliminary approach to propagating emotive metadata to unlabeled lexical units based on the distribution of manual annotations using logistic regression and description of mixed synset embeddings based on our Heterogeneous Structured Synset Embeddings.
According to George K. Zipf, more frequent words have more senses. We have tested this law using corpora and wordnets of English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Polish, Japanese, Indonesian and Chinese. We have proved that the law works pretty well for all of these languages if we take - as Zipf did - mean values of meaning count and averaged ranks. On the other hand, the law disastrously fails in predicting the number of senses for a single lemma. We have also provided the evidence that slope coefficients of Zipfian log-log linear model may vary from language to language.
The paper presents the latest release of the Polish WordNet, namely plWordNet 4.1. The most significant developments since 3.0 version include new relations for nouns and verbs, mapping semantic role-relations from the valency lexicon Walenty onto the plWordNet structure and sense-level inter-lingual mapping. Several statistics are presented in order to illustrate the development and contemporary state of the wordnet.
In this paper, we compare a variety of sense-tagged sentiment resources, including SentiWordNet, ML-Senticon, plWordNet emo and the NTU Multilingual Corpus. The goal is to investigate the quality of the resources and see how well the sentiment polarity annotation maps across languages.
Lexical resources need to be as complete as possible. Very little work seems to have been done on adverbs, the smallest part of speech class in Princeton WordNet counting the number of synsets. Amongst adverbs, manner adverbs ending in {`}-ly{'} seem the easiest to work with, as their meaning is almost the same as the one of the associated adjective. This phenomenon seems to be parallel in English and Portuguese, where these manner adverbs finish in the suffix {`}-mente{'}. We use this correspondence to improve the coverage of adverbs in the lexical resource OpenWordNet-PT, a wordnet for Portuguese.
In the Princeton WordNet Gloss Corpus, the word forms from the definitions ({``}glosses{''}) in WordNet{'}s synsets are manually linked to the context-appropriate sense in the WordNet. The glosses then become a sense-disambiguated corpus annotated against WordNet version 3.0. The result is also called a semantic concordance, which can be seen as both a lexicon (WordNet extension) and an annotated corpus. In this work we motivate and present the initial steps to complete the annotation of all open-class words in this corpus. Finally, we introduce a freely-available annotation interface built as an Emacs extension, and evaluate a preliminary annotation effort.
This paper introduces a new multilingual lexicon of geographical place names. The names are based on (and linked to) the GeoNames collection. Each location is treated as a new synset, which is linked by instance{\_}hypernym to a small set of supertypes. These supertypes are linked to the collaborative interlingual index, based on mappings from GeoDomainWordnet. If a location is already in the interlingual index, then it is also linked to the entry, using mappings from the Geo-Wordnet. Finally, if GeoNames places the location in a larger location, this is linked using the mero{\_}location link. Wordnets can be built for any language in GeoNames, we give results for those wordnets in the Open Multilingual Wordnet. We discuss how it is mapped and the characteristics of the extracted wordnets.
This paper aims to study auto-hyponymy and auto-troponymy relations (or vertical polysemy) in 11 wordnets uploaded into the new Open Multilingual Wordnet (OMW) webpage. We investigate how vertical polysemy forms polysemy structures (or sense clusters) in semantic hierarchies of the wordnets. Our main results and discoveries are new polysemy structures that have not previously been associated with vertical polysemy, along with some inconsistencies of semantic relations analysis in the studied wordnets, which should not be there. In the case study, we turn attention to polysemy structures in the Estonian Wordnet (version 2.2.0), analyzing them and giving the lexicographers comments. In addition, we describe the detection algorithm of polysemy structures and an overview of the state of polysemy structures in 11 wordnets.
Automatic Cognate Detection (ACD) is a challenging task which has been utilized to help NLP applications like Machine Translation, Information Retrieval and Computational Phylogenetics. Unidentified cognate pairs can pose a challenge to these applications and result in a degradation of performance. In this paper, we detect cognate word pairs among ten Indian languages with Hindi and use deep learning methodologies to predict whether a word pair is cognate or not. We identify IndoWordnet as a potential resource to detect cognate word pairs based on orthographic similarity-based methods and train neural network models using the data obtained from it. We identify parallel corpora as another potential resource and perform the same experiments for them. We also validate the contribution of Wordnets through further experimentation and report improved performance of up to 26{\%}. We discuss the nuances of cognate detection among closely related Indian languages and release the lists of detected cognates as a dataset. We also observe the behaviour of, to an extent, unrelated Indian language pairs and release the lists of detected cognates among them as well.
Interactive ﬁctions, or text-adventures, are games in which a player interacts with a world entirely through textual descriptions and text actions. Text-adventure games are typically structured as puzzles or quests wherein the player must execute certain actions in a certain order to succeed. In this paper, we consider the problem of procedurally generating a quest, deﬁned as a series of actions required to progress towards a goal, in a text-adventure game. Quest generation in text environments is challenging because they must be semantically coherent. We present and evaluate two quest generation techniques: (1) a Markov chains, and (2) a neural generative model. We speciﬁcally look at generating quests about cooking and train our models on recipe data. We evaluate our techniques with human participant studies looking at perceived creativity and coherence. 
This study focused on efﬁcient text generation using generative adversarial networks (GAN). Assuming that the goal is to generate a paragraph of a user-deﬁned topic and sentimental tendency, conventionally the whole network has to be re-trained to obtain new results each time when a user changes the topic. This would be time-consuming and impractical. Therefore, we propose a User-Deﬁned GAN (UD-GAN) with two-level discriminators to solve this problem. The ﬁrst discriminator aims to guide the generator to learn paragraphlevel information and sentence syntactic structure, which is constructed by multiple-LSTMs. The second one copes with higher level information, such as the user-deﬁned sentiment and topic for text generation. The cosine similarity based on TF-IDF and length penalty are adopted to determine the relevance of the topic. Then, the second discriminator is retrained with generator if the topic or sentiment for text generation is modiﬁed. The system evaluations are conducted to compare the performance of the proposed method with other GAN-based ones. The objective results showed that the proposed method is capable of generating texts with less time than others and the generated text are related to the user-deﬁned topic and sentiment. We will further investigate the possibility of incorporating more detailed paragraph information such as semantics into text generation to enhance the result. 
Emotional language generation is one of the keys to human-like artiﬁcial intelligence. Humans use different type of emotions depending on the situation of the conversation. Emotions also play an important role in mediating the engagement level with conversational partners. However, current conversational agents do not effectively account for emotional content in the language generation process. To address this problem, we develop a language modeling approach that generates affective content when the dialogue is situated in a given context. We use the recently released Empathetic-Dialogues corpus to build our models. Through detailed experiments, we ﬁnd that our approach outperforms the stateof-the-art method on the perplexity metric by about 5 points and achieves a higher BLEU metric score. 
Text embellishment is a natural language generation problem that aims to enhance the lexical and syntactic complexity of a text. i.e., for a given sentence, the goal is to generate a sentence that is lexically and syntactically complex while retaining the same semantic information and meaning. In contrast to text simpliﬁcation (Wang et al., 2016), text embellishment is considered to be a more complex problem as it requires linguistic expertise, and therefore are difﬁcult to be shared across different platforms and domain. In this paper, we have explored this problem through the light of neural machine translation and text simpliﬁcation. Instead of using a standard sequential encoder-decoder network, we propose to improve text embellishment with the Transformer model. The proposed model yields superior performance in terms of lexical and syntactic embellishment and demonstrates broad applicability and effectiveness. We also introduce a language and domain agnostic evaluation set up speciﬁcally for the task of embellishment that can be used to test different embellishment algorithms. 
An advertisement video is a narrative based on a short story, and it is among the various narrative techniques used for constructing a plot. Although research into advertisement copies and explanations has been recently conducted, only a few researchers, including us, have discussed the automated generation of advertising stories and plots in detail. This study proposes the prototype of an advertising plot generation system based on a comprehensive analysis of advertisement videos. 
Nominalization is a common technique in academic writing for producing abstract and formal text. Since it often involves paraphrasing a clause with a verb or adjectival phrase into a noun phrase, an important task is to generate the noun to replace the original verb or adjective. Given that a verb or adjective may have multiple nominalized forms with similar meaning, the system needs to be able to automatically select the most appropriate one. We propose an unsupervised algorithm that makes the selection with BERT, a stateof-the-art neural language model. Experimental results show that it signiﬁcantly outperforms baselines based on word frequencies, word2vec and doc2vec. 
